37065853|t|Getting closer to modeling the gut-brain axis using induced pluripotent stem cells.
37065853|w|Vanessa Hall; Katja Maria Sahlgren Bendtsen
37065853|j|Frontiers in cell and developmental biology
37065853|y|2023
37065853|a|The gut microbiome (GM), the gut barrier, and the blood-brain barrier (BBB) are key elements of the gut-brain axis (GBA). The advances in organ-on-a-chip and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSCs) technology might enable more physiological gut-brain-axis-on-a-chip models. The ability to mimic complex physiological functions of the GBA is needed in basic mechanistic research as well as disease research of psychiatric, neurodevelopmental, functional, and neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. These brain disorders have been associated with GM dysbiosis, which may affect the brain <i>via</i> the GBA. Although animal models have paved the way for the breakthroughs and progression in the understanding of the GBA, the fundamental questions of exactly when, how, and why still remain unanswered. The research of the complex GBA have relied on equally complex animal models, but today's ethical knowledge and responsibilities demand interdisciplinary development of non-animal models to study such systems. In this review we briefly describe the gut barrier and BBB, provide an overview of current cell models, and discuss the use of iPSCs in these GBA elements. We highlight the perspectives of producing GBA chips using iPSCs and the challenges that remain in the field.


33249563|t|Microbiota-immune alterations in adolescents following early life adversity: A proof of concept study.
33249563|w|Brie M Reid; Rachael Horne; Bonny Donzella; Jake C Szamosi; Christopher L Coe; Jane A Foster; Megan R Gunnar
33249563|j|Developmental psychobiology
33249563|y|2021
33249563|a|Early adverse care has long-term impacts on physical and mental health. The influence of rearing conditions on the infant's gut microbiota and its relationship with developmental health has become more evident. The microbiome is essential for normal growth and metabolism, and the signaling from the gut to the brain may underlie individual differences in resilience later in life. Microbial diversity and composition were determined using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing in fecal samples from 17 adolescents adopted internationally from orphanages into the United States and 18 adolescents reared in birth families who had similar educational and income levels. Analyses focused on diversity of the microbial community structure and differences in the abundance of specific bacterial taxa. Blood samples were used to immunophenotype the numbers of several T-cell subsets and cytomegalovirus (CMV) seropositivity. Negative binomial regression analysis revealed several operational taxonomic units that were significantly different based on early rearing conditions and CMV seropositivity. There were significant associations between the relative abundance of certain taxa, the percentages of T-cell subsets in circulation, and CMV seropositivity. These findings demonstrate a possible link between the gut microbiota and associations with immune alterations initiated by early life adversity.


33045322|t|Targeting the microbiome-gut-brain axis for improving cognition in schizophrenia and major mood disorders: A narrative review.
33045322|w|Miquel Bioque; Alexandre González-Rodríguez; Clemente Garcia-Rizo; Jesús Cobo; José Antonio Monreal; Judith Usall; Virginia Soria; Javier Labad
33045322|j|Progress in neuro-psychopharmacology & biological psychiatry
33045322|y|2021
33045322|a|Cognitive impairment has been consistently found to be a core feature of serious mental illnesses such as schizophrenia and major mood disorders (major depression and bipolar disorder). In recent years, a great effort has been made in elucidating the biological causes of cognitive deficits and the search for new biomarkers of cognition. Microbiome and gut-brain axis (MGB) hormones have been postulated to be potential biomarkers of cognition in serious mental illnesses. The main aim of this review was to synthesize current evidence on the association of microbiome and gut-brain hormones on cognitive processes in schizophrenia and major mood disorders and the association of MGB hormones with stress and the immune system. Our review underscores the role of the MGB axis on cognitive aspects of serious mental illnesses with the potential use of agents targeting the gut microbiota as cognitive enhancers. However, the current evidence for clinical trials focused on the MGB axis as cognitive enhancers in these clinical populations is scarce. Future clinical trials using probiotics, prebiotics, antibiotics, or faecal microbiota transplantation need to consider potential mechanistic pathways such as the HPA axis, the immune system, or gut-brain axis hormones involved in appetite control and energy homeostasis.


36550632|t|Oxymatrine ameliorates white matter injury by modulating gut microbiota after intracerebral hemorrhage in mice.
36550632|w|Jing Li; Jianhao Liang; Meiqin Zeng; Kaijian Sun; Yunhao Luo; Huaping Zheng; Feng Li; Wen Yuan; Hongwei Zhou; Junshan Liu; Haitao Sun
36550632|j|CNS neuroscience & therapeutics
36550632|y|2023
36550632|a|White matter injury (WMI) significantly affects neurobehavioral recovery in intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) patients. Gut dysbiosis plays an important role in the pathogenesis of neurological disorders. Oxymatrine (OMT) has therapeutic effects on inflammation-mediated diseases. Whether OMT exerts therapeutic effects on WMI after ICH and the role of gut microbiota involved in this process is largely unknown. Neurological deficits, WMI, gut microbial composition, intestinal barrier function, and systemic inflammation were investigated after ICH. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) was performed to elucidate the role of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of ICH. OMT promoted long-term neurological function recovery and ameliorated WMI in the peri-hematoma region and distal corticospinal tract (CST) region after ICH. ICH induced significant and persistent gut dysbiosis, which was obviously regulated by OMT. In addition, OMT alleviated intestinal barrier dysfunction and systemic inflammation. Correlation analysis revealed that gut microbiota alteration was significantly correlated with inflammation, intestinal barrier permeability, and neurological deficits after ICH. Moreover, OMT-induced gut microbiota alteration could confer protection against neurological deficits and intestinal barrier disruption. Our study demonstrates that OMT ameliorates ICH-induced WMI and neurological deficits by modulating gut microbiota.


30248988|t|A Meta-Analysis of the Clinical Use of Curcumin for Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS).
30248988|w|Qin Xiang Ng; Alex Yu Sen Soh; Wayren Loke; Nandini Venkatanarayanan; Donovan Yutong Lim; Wee-Song Yeo
30248988|j|Journal of clinical medicine
30248988|y|2018
30248988|a|Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) remains a prevalent and difficult-to-manage gastrointestinal condition. There is growing interest in the use of traditional medicine to manage IBS. In particular, curcumin, a biologically active phytochemical, has demonstrated anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties and mucosal protective effects in rat models of colitis. This meta-analysis thus aimed to investigate the hypothesis that curcumin improves IBS symptoms. Using the keywords (curcumin OR turmeric OR Indian saffron OR diferuloylmethane OR curcuminoid) AND (irritable bowel syndrome OR IBS), a preliminary search on the PubMed, Medline, Embase, PsychINFO, Web of Science, and Google Scholar databases yielded 1080 papers published in English between 1 January 1988 and 1 May 2018. Five randomized, controlled trials were systematically reviewed and 3 were included in the final meta-analysis. Random-effects meta-analysis based on three studies and 326 patients found curcumin to have a beneficial albeit not statistically significant effect on IBS symptoms (pooled standardized mean difference from baseline IBS severity rating -0.466, 95% CI: -1.113 to 0.182, <i>p</i> = 0.158). This is the first meta-analysis to examine the use of curcumin in IBS. With its unique anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activities and ability to modulate gut microbiota, curcumin is a potentially useful addition to our armamentarium of agents for IBS. It also appears safe and well-tolerated, with no adverse events reported in the available trials. However, current findings are based on a considerably limited evidence base with marked heterogeneity. More robust clinical trials involving a standardized curcumin preparation and larger sample sizes should be encouraged.


36624505|t|Safety and feasibility of faecal microbiota transplant for major depressive disorder: study protocol for a pilot randomised controlled trial.
36624505|w|Jessica E Green; Amelia J McGuinness; Michael Berk; David Castle; Eugene Athan; Christopher Hair; Philip Strandwitz; Amy Loughman; Andrew A Nierenberg; John F Cryan; Mohammadreza Mohebbi; Felice Jacka
36624505|j|Pilot and feasibility studies
36624505|y|2023
36624505|a|Mental disorders, including major depressive disorder (MDD), are a leading cause of non-fatal burden of disease globally. Current conventional treatments for depression have significant limitations, and there have been few new treatments in decades. The microbiota-gut-brain-axis is now recognised as playing a role in mental and brain health, and promising preclinical and clinical data suggest Faecal Microbiota Transplants (FMT) may be efficacious for treating a range of mental illnesses. However, there are no existing published studies in humans evaluating the efficacy of FMT for MDD. This protocol describes an 8-week, triple-blind, 2:1 parallel group, randomised controlled pilot trial (n = 15), of enema-delivered FMT treatment (n = 10) compared with a placebo enema (n = 5) in adults with moderate-to-severe MDD. There will be a further 26-week follow-up to monitor longer-term safety. Participants will receive four FMT or placebo enemas over four consecutive days. The primary aims of the study are to evaluate feasibility and safety of FMT as an adjunctive treatment for MDD in adults. Changes in gut microbiota will be assessed as a secondary outcome. Other data will be collected, including changes in depression and anxiety symptoms, and safety parameters. Modification of the microbiota-gut-brain axis via FMT is a promising potential treatment for MDD, but there are no published rigorous clinical trials evaluating its use. If this study finds that our FMT strategy is safe and feasible, a larger fully powered RCT is planned. Further high-quality research in this field is urgently needed to address unmet need. Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry: ACTRN12621000932864.


37630649|t|Microbiota in Irritable Bowel Syndrome and Endometriosis: Birds of a Feather Flock Together-A Review.
37630649|w|Noemi Salmeri; Emanuele Sinagra; Carolina Dolci; Giovanni Buzzaccarini; Giulio Sozzi; Miriam Sutera; Massimo Candiani; Federica Ungaro; Luca Massimino; Silvio Danese; Francesco Vito Mandarino
37630649|j|Microorganisms
37630649|y|2023
37630649|a|Endometriosis and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) are chronic conditions affecting up to 10% of the global population, imposing significant burdens on healthcare systems and patient quality of life. Interestingly, around 20% of endometriosis patients also present with symptoms indicative of IBS. The pathogenesis of both these multifactorial conditions remains to be fully elucidated, but connections to gut microbiota are becoming more apparent. Emerging research underscores significant differences in the gut microbiota composition between healthy individuals and those suffering from either endometriosis or IBS. Intestinal dysbiosis appears pivotal in both conditions, exerting an influence via similar mechanisms. It impacts intestinal permeability, triggers inflammatory reactions, and initiates immune responses. Furthermore, it is entwined in a bidirectional relationship with the brain, as part of the gut-brain axis, whereby dysbiosis influences and is influenced by mental health and pain perception. Recent years have witnessed the development of microbiota-focused therapies, such as low FODMAP diets, prebiotics, probiotics, antibiotics, and fecal microbiota transplantation, designed to tackle dysbiosis and relieve symptoms. While promising, these treatments present inconsistent data, highlighting the need for further research. This review explores the evidence of gut dysbiosis in IBS and endometriosis, underscoring the similar role of microbiota in both conditions. A deeper understanding of this common mechanism may enable enhanced diagnostics and therapeutic advancements.


37294054|t|EphB6 deficiency in intestinal neurons promotes tumor growth in colorectal cancer by neurotransmitter GABA signaling.
37294054|w|Hao Yu; Xiao-Kang Qin; Kai-Wen Yin; Zi-Ming Li; En-De Ni; Jian-Ming Yang; Xun-Hua Liu; Ai-Jun Zhou; Shu-Ji Li; Tian-Ming Gao; Ying Li; Jian-Ming Li
37294054|j|Carcinogenesis
37294054|y|2023
37294054|a|EphB6 belongs to the receptor tyrosine kinase, whose low expression is associated with shorter survival of colorectal cancer (CRC) patients. But the role and mechanism of EphB6 in the progression of CRC need further study. In addition, EphB6 was mainly expressed in intestinal neurons. But how EphB6 is involved in functions of intestinal neurons has not been known. In our study, we constructed a mouse xenograft model of CRC by injecting CMT93 cells into the rectum of EphB6-deficient mice. We found that the deletion of EphB6 in mice promoted tumor growth of CMT93 cells in a xenograft model of CRC, which was independent of changes in the gut microbiota. Interestingly, inhibition of intestinal neurons by injecting botulinum toxin A into rectum of EphB6-deficient mice could eliminate the promotive effect of EphB6 deficiency on tumor growth in the xenograft model of CRC. Mechanically, the deletion of EphB6 in mice promoted the tumor growth in CRC by increasing GABA in the tumor microenvironment. Furthermore, EphB6 deficiency in mice increased the expression of synaptosomal-associated protein 25 in the intestinal myenteric plexus, which mediated the release of GABA. Our study concluded that EphB6 knockout in mice promotes tumor growth of CMT93 cells in a xenograft model of CRC by modulating GABA release. Our study found a new regulating mechanism of EphB6 on the tumor progression in CRC that is dependent on intestinal neurons.


36945049|t|Maternal weight, gut microbiota, and the association with early childhood behavior: the PREOBE follow-up study.
36945049|w|Ana Nieto-Ruiz; Tomás Cerdó; Belén Jordano; Francisco J Torres-Espínola; Mireia Escudero-Marín; María García-Ricobaraza; Mercedes G Bermúdez; José A García-Santos; Antonio Suárez; Cristina Campoy
36945049|j|Child and adolescent psychiatry and mental health
36945049|y|2023
36945049|a|Maternal overweight and breastfeeding seem to have a significant impact on the gut microbiota colonization process, which co-occurs simultaneously with brain development and the establishment of the "microbiota-gut-brain axis", which potentially may affect behavior later in life. This study aimed to examine the influence of maternal overweight, obesity and/or gestational diabetes on the offspring behavior at 3.5 years of age and its association with the gut microbiota already established at 18 months of life. 156 children born to overweight (OV, n = 45), obese (OB, n = 40) and normoweight (NW, n = 71) pregnant women participating in the PREOBE study were included in the current analysis. Stool samples were collected at 18 months of life and gut microbiome was obtained by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Behavioral problems were evaluated at 3.5 years by using the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL). ANOVA, Chi-Square Test, ANCOVA, Spearman's correlation, logistic regression model and generalized linear model (GLM) were performed. At 3.5 years of age, Children born to OV/OB mothers showed higher scores in behavioral problems than those born to NW mothers. Additionally, offspring born to OB mothers who developed gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) presented higher scores in attention/deficit hyperactivity and externalizing problems than those born to GDM OV/NW mothers. Fusicatenibacter abundance found at 18 months of age was associated to lower scores in total, internalizing and pervasive developmental problems, while an unidentified genus within Clostridiales and Flavonifractor families abundance showed a positive correlation with anxiety/depression and somatic complaints, respectively. On the other hand, children born to mothers with higher BMI who were breastfed presented elevated anxiety, internalizing problems, externalizing problems and total problems scores; likewise, their gut microbiota composition at 18 months of age showed positive correlation with behavioral problems at 3.5 years: Actinobacteria abundance and somatic complaints and between Fusobacteria abundance and withdrawn behavior and pervasive developmental problems. Our findings suggests that OV/OB and/or GDM during pregnancy is associated with higher behavioral problems scores in children at 3.5 years old. Additionally, associations between early life gut microbiota composition and later mental health in children was also found.


33920695|t|Neurobiological Processes Induced by Aerobic Exercise through the Endocannabinoidome.
33920695|w|Fabiola Forteza; Giada Giorgini; Frédéric Raymond
33920695|j|Cells
33920695|y|2021
33920695|a|Evidence suggesting the triangulation of the endocannabinoid system, exercise, and neurological health is emerging. In addition to the endocannabinoids <i>N</i>-arachidonoylethanolamine (anandamide; AEA) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), the expanded endocannabinoid system, known as the endocannabinoidome (eCBome), appears to be an important player in this relationship. The eCBome includes several endocannabinoid-like mediators such as <i>N</i>-acylethanolamines and 2-monoacylglycerols, the enzymes involved in their biosynthesis and degradation, and the receptors they affect. This review aims to relate the functional interactions between aerobic exercise, and the molecular and cellular pathways related to endocannabinoids, in the hypothalamus, hippocampus, and the periphery, with special attention given to associations with emotional state, cognition, and mental health. Given the well-documented roles of many eCBome members in regulating stress and neurological processes, we posit that the eCBome is an important effector of exercise-induced central and peripheral adaptive mechanisms that benefit mental health. Gut microbiota imbalance, affecting the gut-brain axis and metabolism, also influences certain eCBome-modulated inflammation pathways. The integrity of the gut microbiota could thus be crucial in the onset of neuroinflammation and mental conditions. Further studies on how the modulation by exercise of the peripheral eCBome affects brain functions could reveal to be key elements in the prevention and treatment of neuropsychological disorders.


36400152|t|Brain-gut microbiota multimodal predictive model in patients with bipolar depression.
36400152|w|Caixi Xi; Ang Li; Jianbo Lai; Xiaojie Huang; Peifen Zhang; Su Yan; Mengfan Jiao; Huimin Huang; Shaohua Hu
36400152|j|Journal of affective disorders
36400152|y|2023
36400152|a|The "microbiota-gut-brain axis" which bridges the brain and gut microbiota is involved in the pathological mechanisms of bipolar disorder (BD), but rare is known about the exact association patterns and the potential for clinical diagnosis and treatment outcome prediction. At baseline, fecal samples and resting-state MRI data were collected from 103 BD depression patients and 39 healthy controls (HCs) for metagenomic sequencing and network-based functional connectivity (FC), grey matter volume (GMV) analyses. All patients then received 4-weeks quetiapine treatment and were further classified as responders and non-responders. Based on pre-treatment datasets, the correlation networks were established between gut microbiota and neuroimaging measures and the multimodal kernal combination support vector machine (SVM) classifiers were constructed to distinguish BD patients from HCs, and quetiapine responders from non-responders. The multi-modal pre-treatment characteristics of quetiapine responders, were closer to the HCs compared to non-responders. And the correlation network analyses found the substantial correlations existed in HC between the Anaerotruncus_ unclassified，Porphyromonas_asaccharolytica，Actinomyces_graevenitzii et al. and the functional connectomes involved default mode network (DMN),somatomotor (SM), visual, limbic and basal ganglia networks were disrupted in BD. Moreover, in terms of the multimodal classifier, it reached optimized area under curve (AUC-ROC) at 0.9517 when classified BD from HC, and also acquired 0.8292 discriminating quetiapine responders from non-responders, which consistently better than even using the best unique modality. Lack post-treatment and external validation datasets; size of HCs is modest. Multi-modalities of combining pre-treatment gut microbiota with neuroimaging endophenotypes might be a superior approach for accurate diagnosis and quetiapine efficacy prediction in BD.


38273106|t|Human microbiota from drug-naive patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder drives behavioral symptoms and neuroinflammation via succinic acid in mice.
38273106|w|Ying-Dan Zhang; Dong-Dong Shi; Bing-Bing Liao; Yi Li; Sen Zhang; Jian Gao; Liang-Jun Lin; Zhen Wang
38273106|j|Molecular psychiatry
38273106|y|2024
38273106|a|Emerging evidence suggests that the gut microbiota is closely related to psychiatric disorders. However, little is known about the role of the gut microbiota in the development of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Here, to investigate the contribution of gut microbiota to the pathogenesis of OCD, we transplanted fecal microbiota from first-episode, drug-naive OCD patients or demographically matched healthy individuals into antibiotic-treated specific pathogen-free (SPF) mice and showed that colonization with OCD microbiota is sufficient to induce core behavioral deficits, including abnormal anxiety-like and compulsive-like behaviors. The fecal microbiota was analyzed using 16 S rRNA full-length sequencing, and the results demonstrated a clear separation of the fecal microbiota of mice colonized with OCD and control microbiota. Notably, microbiota from OCD-colonized mice resulted in injured neuronal morphology and function in the mPFC, with inflammation in the mPFC and colon. Unbiased metabolomic analyses of the serum and mPFC region revealed the accumulation of succinic acid (SA) in OCD-colonized mice. SA impeded neuronal activity and induced an inflammatory response in both the colon and mPFC, impacting intestinal permeability and brain function, which act as vital signal mediators in gut microbiota-brain-immune crosstalk. Manipulations of dimethyl malonate (DM) have been reported to exert neuroprotective effects by suppressing the oxidation of accumulated succinic acid, attenuating the downstream inflammatory response and neuronal damage, and can help to partly improve abnormal behavior and reduce neuroinflammation and intestinal inflammation in OCD-colonized mice. We propose that the gut microbiota likely regulates brain function and behaviors in mice via succinic acid signaling, which contributes to the pathophysiology of OCD through gut-brain crosstalk and may provide new insights into the treatment of this disorder.


38606523|t|Current iron therapy in the light of regulation, intestinal microbiome, and toxicity: are we prescribing too much iron?
38606523|w|Anaëlle L Dentand; Morton G Schubert; Pierre-Alexandre Krayenbuehl
38606523|j|Critical reviews in clinical laboratory sciences
38606523|y|2024
38606523|a|Iron deficiency is a widespread global health concern with varying prevalence rates across different regions. In developing countries, scarcity of food and chronic infections contribute to iron deficiency, while in industrialized nations, reduced food intake and dietary preferences affect iron status. Other causes that can lead to iron deficiency are conditions and diseases that result in reduced intestinal iron absorption and blood loss. In addition, iron absorption and its bioavailability are influenced by the composition of the diet. Individuals with increased iron needs, including infants, adolescents, and athletes, are particularly vulnerable to deficiency. Severe iron deficiency can lead to anemia with performance intolerance or shortness of breath. In addition, even without anemia, iron deficiency leads to mental and physical fatigue, which points to the fundamental biological importance of iron, especially in mitochondrial function and the respiratory chain. Standard oral iron supplementation often results in gastrointestinal side effects and poor compliance. Low-dose iron therapy seems to be a valid and reasonable therapeutic option due to reduced hepatic hepcidin formation, facilitating efficient iron resorption, replenishment of iron storage, and causing significantly fewer side effects. Elevated iron levels influence gut microbiota composition, favoring pathogenic bacteria and potentially disrupting metabolic and immune functions. Protective bacteria, such as bifidobacteria and lactobacilli, are particularly susceptible to increased iron levels. Dysbiosis resulting from iron supplementation may contribute to gastrointestinal disorders, inflammatory bowel disease, and metabolic disturbances. Furthermore, gut microbiota alterations have been linked to mental health issues. Future iron therapy should consider low-dose supplementation to mitigate adverse effects and the impact on the gut microbiome. A comprehensive understanding of the interplay between iron intake, gut microbiota, and human health is crucial for optimizing therapeutic approaches and minimizing potential risks associated with iron supplementation.


37062706|t|The Leap of Inulin Fructans from Food Industry to Medical Application.
37062706|w|Xuemei Zhou; Shixu Wang; Chongchong Xu; Jiaolin Li; Hongyan Liu; Lin He; Shurong Zhong; Kuan Li
37062706|j|Chemistry & biodiversity
37062706|y|2023
37062706|a|As a dietary supplement, the efficacy of prebiotics has become a hot issue in recent years. Inulin is one of internationally recognized prebiotics and belongs to a group of non-digestible and fermentable carbohydrates. Currently, the food industry is increasingly using prebiotic inulin as a health-promoting substrate, not just as food supplement. In addition, inulin has also shown great promise in the treatment of various diseases. This article reviews the application of inulin in the food industry and summarizes physiological function of inulin. Through the review and prospect of the research on obesity, diabetes and mental illness, it provides the theoretical basis for the joint development of inulin in food industry and medical application.


29147024|t|Comparison of (R)-ketamine and lanicemine on depression-like phenotype and abnormal composition of gut microbiota in a social defeat stress model.
29147024|w|Youge Qu; Chun Yang; Qian Ren; Min Ma; Chao Dong; Kenji Hashimoto
29147024|j|Scientific reports
29147024|y|2017
29147024|a|Accumulating evidence suggests a key role of the gut-microbiota-brain axis in the antidepressant actions of certain compounds. Ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, showed rapid and sustained antidepressant effects in treatment-resistant depressed patients. In contrast, another NMDAR antagonist, lanicemine, did not exhibit antidepressant effects in such patients. (R)-ketamine, the (R)-enantiomer of ketamine, has rapid-acting and long-lasting antidepressant effects in rodent models of depression. Here we compared the effects of (R)-ketamine and lanicemine on depression-like phenotype and the composition of the gut microbiota in susceptible mice after chronic social defeat stress (CSDS). In behavioral tests, (R)-ketamine showed antidepressant effects in the susceptible mice, whereas lanicemine did not. The 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing of feces demonstrated that (R)-ketamine, but not lanicemine, significantly attenuated the altered levels of Bacteroidales, Clostridiales and Ruminococcaceae in the susceptible mice after CSDS. At the genus level, (R)-ketamine significantly attenuated the marked increase of Clostridium in the susceptible mice. In contrast, the effects of lanicemine were less potent than those of (R)-ketamine. This study suggests that the antidepressant effects of (R)-ketamine might be partly mediated by the restoration of altered compositions of the gut microbiota in a CSDS model.


35723531|t|Bacterial Butyrate in Parkinson's Disease Is Linked to Epigenetic Changes and Depressive Symptoms.
35723531|w|Aoji Xie; Elizabeth Ensink; Peipei Li; Juozas Gordevičius; Lee L Marshall; Sonia George; John Andrew Pospisilik; Velma T E Aho; Madelyn C Houser; Pedro A B Pereira; Knut Rudi; Lars Paulin; Malú G Tansey; Petri Auvinen; Patrik Brundin; Lena Brundin; Viviane Labrie; Filip Scheperjans
35723531|j|Movement disorders : official journal of the Movement Disorder Society
35723531|y|2022
35723531|a|The gut microbiome and its metabolites can impact brain health and are altered in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. It has been recently demonstrated that PD patients have reduced fecal levels of the potent epigenetic modulator butyrate and its bacterial producers. Here, we investigate whether the changes in the gut microbiome and associated metabolites are related to PD symptoms and epigenetic markers in leucocytes and neurons. Stool, whole blood samples, and clinical data were collected from 55 PD patients and 55 controls. We performed DNA methylation analysis on whole blood samples and analyzed the results in relation to fecal short-chain fatty acid concentrations and microbiota composition. In another cohort, prefrontal cortex neurons were isolated from control and PD brains. We identified genome-wide DNA methylation by targeted bisulfite sequencing. We show that lower fecal butyrate and reduced counts of genera Roseburia, Romboutsia, and Prevotella are related to depressive symptoms in PD patients. Genes containing butyrate-associated methylation sites include PD risk genes and significantly overlap with sites epigenetically altered in PD blood leucocytes, predominantly neutrophils, and in brain neurons, relative to controls. Moreover, butyrate-associated methylated-DNA regions in PD overlap with those altered in gastrointestinal (GI), autoimmune, and psychiatric diseases. Decreased levels of bacterially produced butyrate are related to epigenetic changes in leucocytes and neurons from PD patients and to the severity of their depressive symptoms. PD shares common butyrate-dependent epigenetic changes with certain GI and psychiatric disorders, which could be relevant for their epidemiological relation. © 2022 The Authors. Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.


37298527|t|Neurodegenerative and Neurodevelopmental Diseases and the Gut-Brain Axis: The Potential of Therapeutic Targeting of the Microbiome.
37298527|w|Brian Bicknell; Ann Liebert; Thomas Borody; Geoffrey Herkes; Craig McLachlan; Hosen Kiat
37298527|j|International journal of molecular sciences
37298527|y|2023
37298527|a|The human gut microbiome contains the largest number of bacteria in the body and has the potential to greatly influence metabolism, not only locally but also systemically. There is an established link between a healthy, balanced, and diverse microbiome and overall health. When the gut microbiome becomes unbalanced (dysbiosis) through dietary changes, medication use, lifestyle choices, environmental factors, and ageing, this has a profound effect on our health and is linked to many diseases, including lifestyle diseases, metabolic diseases, inflammatory diseases, and neurological diseases. While this link in humans is largely an association of dysbiosis with disease, in animal models, a causative link can be demonstrated. The link between the gut and the brain is particularly important in maintaining brain health, with a strong association between dysbiosis in the gut and neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental diseases. This link suggests not only that the gut microbiota composition can be used to make an early diagnosis of neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental diseases but also that modifying the gut microbiome to influence the microbiome-gut-brain axis might present a therapeutic target for diseases that have proved intractable, with the aim of altering the trajectory of neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, autism spectrum disorder, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, among others. There is also a microbiome-gut-brain link to other potentially reversible neurological diseases, such as migraine, post-operative cognitive dysfunction, and long COVID, which might be considered models of therapy for neurodegenerative disease. The role of traditional methods in altering the microbiome, as well as newer, more novel treatments such as faecal microbiome transplants and photobiomodulation, are discussed.


31636495|t|The "systems approach" to treating the brain: opportunities in developmental psychopharmacology.
31636495|w|Silvia Bussone; Luisa Lo Iacono
31636495|j|Dialogues in clinical neuroscience
31636495|y|2019
31636495|a|The significance of early life for the long-term programming of mental health is increasingly being recognized. However, most psychotropic medications are currently intended for adult patients, and early psychopharmacological approaches aimed at reverting aberrant neurodevelopmental trajectories are missing. Psychopharmacologic intervention at an early age faces the challenge of operating in a highly plastic system and requires a comprehensive knowledge of neurodevelopmental mechanisms. Recently the systems biology approach has contributed to the understanding of neuroplasticity mechanisms from a new perspective that interprets them as the result of complex and dynamic networks of signals from different systems. This approach is creating opportunities for developmental psychopharmacology, suggesting novel targets that can modulate the course of development by interfering with neuroplasticity at an early age. We will discuss two interconnected systems-the immune and gut microbiota-that regulate neurodevelopment and that have been implicated in preclinical research as new targets in the prevention of aberrant brain development..


38024855|t|Protective effects of dioscin against Parkinson's disease via regulating bile acid metabolism through remodeling gut microbiome/GLP-1 signaling.
38024855|w|Zhang Mao; Haochen Hui; Xuerong Zhao; Lina Xu; Yan Qi; Lianhong Yin; Liping Qu; Lan Han; Jinyong Peng
38024855|j|Journal of pharmaceutical analysis
38024855|y|2023
38024855|a|It is necessary to explore potent therapeutic agents via regulating gut microbiota and metabolism to combat Parkinson's disease (PD). Dioscin, a bioactive steroidal saponin, shows various activities. However, its effects and mechanisms against PD are limited. In this study, dioscin dramatically alleviated neuroinflammation and oxidative stress, and restored the disorders of mice induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). 16 S rDNA sequencing assay demonstrated that dioscin reversed MPTP-induced gut dysbiosis to decrease <i>Firmicutes</i>-to-<i>Bacteroidetes</i> ratio and the abundances of <i>Enterococcus</i>, <i>Streptococcus</i>, <i>Bacteroides</i> and <i>Lactobacillus genera</i>, which further inhibited bile salt hydrolase (BSH) activity and blocked bile acid (BA) deconjugation. Fecal microbiome transplantation test showed that the <i>anti</i>-PD effect of dioscin was gut microbiota-dependent. In addition, non-targeted fecal metabolomics assays revealed many differential metabolites in adjusting steroid biosynthesis and primary bile acid biosynthesis. Moreover, targeted bile acid metabolomics assay indicated that dioscin increased the levels of ursodeoxycholic acid, tauroursodeoxycholic acid, taurodeoxycholic acid and β-muricholic acid in feces and serum. In addition, ursodeoxycholic acid administration markedly improved the protective effects of dioscin against PD in mice. Mechanistic test indicated that dioscin significantly up-regulated the levels of takeda G protein-coupled receptor 5 (TGR5), glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R), GLP-1, superoxide dismutase (SOD), and down-regulated NADPH oxidases 2 (NOX2) and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) levels. Our data indicated that dioscin ameliorated PD phenotype by restoring gut dysbiosis and regulating bile acid-mediated oxidative stress and neuroinflammation via targeting GLP-1 signal in MPTP-induced PD mice, suggesting that the compound should be considered as a prebiotic agent to treat PD in the future.


36093695|t|Benefits of Gut Microbiota Reconstitution by Beta 1,3-1,6 Glucans in Subjects with Autism Spectrum Disorder and Other Neurodegenerative Diseases.
36093695|w|Kadalraja Raghavan; Vidyasagar Devaprasad Dedeepiya; Naoki Yamamoto; Nobunao Ikewaki; Tohru Sonoda; Masaru Iwasaki; Ramesh Shankar Kandaswamy; Rajappa Senthilkumar; Senthilkumar Preethy; Samuel J K Abraham
36093695|j|Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD
36093695|y|2023
36093695|a|Aureobasidium pullulans (black yeast) AFO-202 strain-produced beta glucan, Nichi Glucan, has been shown to improve the behavior and sleep pattern along with an increase in α-synuclein and melatonin in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). In this randomized pilot clinical study, we have evaluated the gut microbiota of subjects with ASD after consumption of Nichi Glucan. Eighteen subjects with ASD were randomly allocated: six subjects in the control group (Group 1): conventional treatment comprising remedial behavioral therapies and L-carnosine 500 mg per day, and 12 subjects (Group 2) underwent supplementation with Nichi Glucan 0.5 g twice daily along with the conventional treatment for 90 days. Whole genome metagenome (WGM) sequencing of the stool samples at baseline and after intervention showed that among genera of relevance, the abundance of Enterobacteriaceae was decreased almost to zero in Group 2 after intervention, whereas it increased from 0.36% to 0.85% in Group 1. The abundance of Bacteroides increased in Group 1, whereas it decreased in Group 2. The abundance of Prevotella increased while the abundance of Lactobacillus decreased in both Group 1 and Group 2. Among species, a decrease was seen in Escherichia coli, Akkermansia muciniphila CAG:154, Blautia spp., Coprobacillus sp., and Clostridium bolteae CAG:59, with an increase of Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and Prevotella copri, which are both beneficial. AFO-202 beta 1,3-1,6 glucan, in addition to balancing the gut microbiome in children with ASD and its role in effective control of curli-producing Enterobacteriaceae that leads to α-synuclein misfolding and accumulation, may have a prophylactic role in Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases as well.


33955443|t|Gut microbiota in mental health and depression: role of pre/pro/synbiotics in their modulation.
33955443|w|Hasnain N Methiwala; Bhupesh Vaidya; Vamsi Krishna Addanki; Mahendra Bishnoi; Shyam Sunder Sharma; Kanthi Kiran Kondepudi
33955443|j|Food & function
33955443|y|2021
33955443|a|The microbiome residing in the human gut performs a wide range of biological functions. Recently, it has been elucidated that a change in dietary habits is associated with alteration in the gut microflora which results in increased health risks and vulnerability towards various diseases. Falling in line with the same concept, depression has also been shown to increase its prevalence around the globe, especially in the western world. Various research studies have suggested that changes in the gut microbiome profile further result in decreased tolerance of stress. Although currently available medications help in relieving the symptoms of depressive disorders briefly, these drugs are not able to completely reverse the multifactorial pathology of depression. The discovery of the communication pathway between gut microbes and the brain, i.e. the Gut-Brain Axis, has led to new areas of research to find more effective and safer alternatives to current antidepressants. The use of probiotics and prebiotics has been suggested as being effective in various preclinical studies and clinical trials for depression. Therefore, in the present review, we address the new antidepressant mechanisms via gut microbe alterations and provide insight into how these can provide an alternative to antidepressant therapy without the side effects and risk of adverse drug reactions.


36910501|t|Efficacy of acupuncture in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease and its impact on gut microbiota: Study protocol for a randomized sham-controlled trial.
36910501|w|Xiehe Kong; Zhao Ma; Ran Tang; Xuejun Wang; Kai Wei; Guang Yang; Yanting Yang; Yue Zhao; Dan Zhang; Chen Xie; Gang Wang; Xiaopeng Ma
36910501|j|Frontiers in medicine
36910501|y|2023
36910501|a|Acupuncture is used as an adjuvant therapy for Alzheimer's disease (AD), but available evidence for efficacy is limited so far. Growing studies suggest that resident gut microbiota contributes to the development and progression of AD. Meanwhile, acupuncture is reported to treat gastrointestinal and neurodegenerative disorders <i>via</i> the gut-brain axis. Therefore, our aim is to confirm the adjunctive therapeutic effects of acupuncture for AD, and explore the relationship between clinical efficacy and shifts of gut microbiota. This is a randomized, participant-masked, sham-controlled trial. One hundred and sixty participants with mild AD will be randomly assigned (1:1) to either active acupuncture or non-penetrating sham acupuncture (three times weekly for 14 weeks) added to donepezil treatment (5 mg per day for 28 weeks). The primary efficacy outcome is the change from baseline to week 28 in the Alzheimer's disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-cog12). Secondary efficacy outcomes include other assessments of the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), the Alzheimer's disease Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living (ADCS-ADL), and Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI). Gut microbiota will be measured using 16S rRNA tag sequencing. This rigorous trial will provide high-quality evidence on the efficacy of acupuncture as adjunctive treatment for mild AD, and identify the possible mechanisms of acupuncture from gut microbiota. [https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT05078944], ClinicalTrials.gov [NCT05078944]. Registered 15 October 2021.


31214110|t|The Gut and Parkinson's Disease-A Bidirectional Pathway.
31214110|w|Susanne Fonseca Santos; Hadassa Loth de Oliveira; Elizabeth Sumi Yamada; Bianca Cruz Neves; Antonio Pereira
31214110|j|Frontiers in neurology
31214110|y|2019
31214110|a|Humans evolved a symbiotic relationship with their gut microbiome, a complex microbial community composed of bacteria, archaea, protists, and viruses, including bacteriophages. The enteric nervous system (ENS) is a gateway for the bidirectional communication between the brain and the gut, mostly through the vagus nerve (VN). Environmental exposure plays a pivotal role in both the composition and functionality of the gut microbiome and may contribute to susceptibility to neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD). The neuropathological hallmark of PD is the widespread appearance of alpha-synuclein aggregates in both the central and peripheral nervous systems, including the ENS. Many studies suggest that gut toxins can induce the formation of α-syn aggregates in the ENS, which may then be transmitted in a prion-like manner to the CNS through the VN. PD is strongly associated with aging and its negative effects on homeostatic mechanisms protecting from inflammation, oxidative stress, and protein malfunction. In this mini-review, we revisit some landmark discoveries in the field of Parkinson's research and focus on the gut-brain axis. In the process, we highlight evidence showing gut-associated dysbiosis and related microbial-derived components as important players and risk factors for PD. Therefore, the gut microbiome emerges as a potential target for protective measures aiming to prevent PD onset.


26438800|t|Gut Microbiota and Brain Function: An Evolving Field in Neuroscience.
26438800|w|Jane A Foster; Mark Lyte; Emeran Meyer; John F Cryan
26438800|j|The international journal of neuropsychopharmacology
26438800|y|2016
26438800|a|There is a growing appreciation of the importance of gut microbiota to health and disease. This has been driven by advances in sequencing technology and recent findings demonstrating the important role of microbiota in common health disorders such as obesity. Moreover, the potential role of gut microbiota in influencing brain function, behavior, and mental health has attracted the attention of neuroscientists and psychiatrists. At the 29(th) International College of Neuropsychopharmacology (CINP) World Congress held in Vancouver, Canada, in June 2014, a group of experts presented the symposium, "Gut microbiota and brain function: Relevance to psychiatric disorders" to review the latest findings in how gut microbiota may play a role in brain function, behavior, and disease. The symposium covered a broad range of topics, including gut microbiota and neuroendocrine function, the influence of gut microbiota on behavior, probiotics as regulators of brain and behavior, and imaging the gut-brain axis in humans. This report provides an overview of these presentations.


34895297|t|The Moo'D Study: protocol for a randomised controlled trial of A2 beta-casein only versus conventional dairy products in women with low mood.
34895297|w|Meghan Hockey; Hajara Aslam; Michael Berk; Julie A Pasco; Anu Ruusunen; Mohammadreza Mohebbi; Helen Macpherson; Mary Lou Chatterton; Wolfgang Marx; Adrienne O'Neil; Tetyana Rocks; Amelia J McGuinness; Lauren M Young; Felice N Jacka
34895297|j|Trials
34895297|y|2021
34895297|a|Beta-casein is a major protein in cow's milk, of which A1 and A2 are the most frequent variants. Recent evidence implicates A1 beta-casein consumption in mechanisms that are of potential importance to mental health, yet its possible effects on psychological endpoints remains unknown. The primary aim of the study is to evaluate the comparative effects of consumption of dairy products containing A2 beta-casein versus conventional dairy (i.e. containing both A1 and A2 beta-casein) on symptoms of psychological distress in women with low mood. 'The Moo'D Study' is a 16-week, superiority, 1:1 parallel group, triple-blinded, randomised controlled trial. Ninety women with low mood (Patient Health Questionnaire score ≥ 5) will be randomised to consume either A2 beta-casein only or conventional dairy products. The primary outcome, symptoms of psychological distress, will be measured by the 21-item Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale. Secondary outcomes will include symptoms of depression, anxiety and stress, severity of low mood, cognition, gut microbiota composition, gut symptomatology, markers of immune function, gut inflammation, systemic metabolites, endothelial integrity and oxidative stress, body composition, perceived wellbeing, sleep, quality of life, resource use and cost-effectiveness. This study will advance our understanding of the possible impact of milk proteins on psychological distress in women as well as elucidate mechanisms underpinning any association. Given dairy products form a substantial component of traditional and Western diets, the implications of these findings are likely to be of clinical and public health importance. The trial protocol has been prospectively registered with the Australia and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry, ACTRN12618002023235 . Registered on 17 December 2018.


37174495|t|Gut Microbiota and Behavioural Issues in Production, Performance, and Companion Animals: A Systematic Review.
37174495|w|Bonnie Homer; Jackson Judd; Manijeh Mohammadi Dehcheshmeh; Esmaeil Ebrahimie; Darren J Trott
37174495|j|Animals : an open access journal from MDPI
37174495|y|2023
37174495|a|The literature has identified poor nutrition as the leading factor in the manifestation of many behavioural issues in animals, including aggression, hyperalertness, and stereotypies. Literature focused on all species of interest consistently reported that although there were no significant differences in the richness of specific bacterial taxa in the microbiota of individual subjects with abnormal behaviour (termed alpha diversity), there was variability in species diversity between these subjects compared to controls (termed beta diversity). As seen in humans with mental disorders, animals exhibiting abnormal behaviour often have an enrichment of pro-inflammatory and lactic acid-producing bacteria and a reduction in butyrate-producing bacteria. It is evident from the literature that an association exists between gut microbiota diversity (and by extension, the concurrent production of microbial metabolites) and abnormal behavioural phenotypes across various species, including pigs, dogs, and horses. Similar microbiota population changes are also evident in human mental health patients. However, there are insufficient data to identify this association as a cause or effect. This review provides testable hypotheses for future research to establish causal relationships between gut microbiota and behavioural issues in animals, offering promising potential for the development of novel therapeutic and/or preventative interventions aimed at restoring a healthy gut-brain-immune axis to mitigate behavioural issues and, in turn, improve health, performance, and production in animals.


37354486|t|Blood-borne extracellular vesicles of bacteria and intestinal cells in patients with psychotic disorders.
37354486|w|Mette Elise Tunset; Hanne Haslene-Hox; Tim Van Den Bossche; Susan Maleki; Arne Vaaler; Daniel Kondziella
37354486|j|Nordic journal of psychiatry
37354486|y|2023
37354486|a|Human cells and bacteria secrete extracellular vesicles (EV) which play a role in intercellular communication. EV from the host intestinal epithelium are involved in the regulation of bacterial gene expression and growth. Bacterial EV (bactEV) produced in the intestine can pass to various tissues where they deliver biomolecules to many kinds of cells, including neurons. Emerging data indicate that gut microbiota is altered in patients with psychotic disorders. We hypothesized that the amount and content of blood-borne EV from intestinal cells and bactEV in psychotic patients would differ from healthy controls. We analyzed for human intestinal proteins by proteomics, for bactEV by metaproteomic analysis, and by measuring the level of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in blood-borne EV from patients with psychotic disorders (<i>n</i> = 25), tested twice, in the acute phase of psychosis and after improvement, with age- and sex-matched healthy controls (<i>n</i> = 25). Patients with psychotic disorders had lower LPS levels in their EV compared to healthy controls (<i>p</i> = .027). Metaproteome analyses confirmed LPS finding and identified Firmicute<i>s</i> and Bacteroidetes as dominating phyla. Total amounts of human intestine proteins in EV isolated from blood was lower in patients compared to controls (<i>p</i> = .02). Our results suggest that bactEV and host intestinal EV are decreased in patients with psychosis and that this topic is worthy of further investigation given potential pathophysiological implications. Possible mechanisms involve dysregulation of the gut microbiota by host EV, altered translocation of bactEV to systemic circulation where bactEV can interact with both the brain and the immune system.


35583791|t|Exploring the multifactorial aspects of Gut Microbiome in Parkinson's Disease.
35583791|w|Sujith Pavan; Arvind N Prabhu; Sankar Prasad Gorthi; Bhabatosh Das; Ankur Mutreja; Vignesh Shetty; Thandavarayan Ramamurthy; Mamatha Ballal
35583791|j|Folia microbiologica
35583791|y|2022
35583791|a|Advanced research in health science has broadened our view in approaching and understanding the pathophysiology of diseases and has also revolutionised diagnosis and treatment. Ever since the establishment of Braak's hypothesis in the propagation of alpha-synuclein from the distant olfactory and enteric nervous system towards the brain in Parkinson's Disease (PD), studies have explored and revealed the involvement of altered gut microbiota in PD. This review recapitulates the gut microbiome associated with PD severity, duration, motor and non-motor symptoms, and antiparkinsonian treatment from recent literature. Gut microbial signatures in PD are potential predictors of the disease and are speculated to be used in early diagnosis and treatment. In brief, the review also emphasises on implications of the prebiotic, probiotic, faecal microbiota transplantation, and dietary interventions as alternative treatments in modulating the disease symptoms in PD.


35024387|t|Altered stress responses in adults born by Caesarean section.
35024387|w|Timothy G Dinan; Paul J Kennedy; Livia H Morais; Amy Murphy; Caitriona M Long-Smith; Gerard M Moloney; Thomaz F S Bastiaanssen; Andrew P Allen; Aoife Collery; David Mullins; Anne-Marie Cusack; Kirsten Berding; Paul W O'Toole; Gerard Clarke; Catherine Stanton; John F Cryan
35024387|j|Neurobiology of stress
35024387|y|2022
35024387|a|Birth by Caesarean-section (C-section), which increases the risk for metabolic and immune disorders, disrupts the normal initial microbial colonisation of the gut, in addition to preventing early priming of the stress and immune-systems.. Animal studies have shown there are enduring psychological processes in C-section born mice. However, the long-term impact of microbiota-gut-brain axis disruptions due to birth by C-section on psychological processes in humans is unknown. Forty age matched healthy young male university students born vaginally and 36 C-section delivered male students were recruited. Participants underwent an acute stressor, the Trier social stress test (TSST), during a term-time study visit. A subset of participants also completed a study visit during the university exam period, representing a naturalistic stressor. Participants completed a battery of cognitive tests and self-report measures assessing mood, anxiety, and perceived stress. Saliva, blood, and stool samples were collected for analysis of cortisol, peripheral immune profile, and the gut microbiota. Young adults born by C-section exhibit increased psychological vulnerability to acute stress and a prolonged period of exam-related stress. They did not exhibit an altered salivary cortisol awakening response to the TSST, but their measures of positive affect were significantly lower than controls throughout the procedure. Both C-section and vaginally-delivered participants performed equally well on cognitive assessments. Most of the initial effects of delivery mode on the gut microbiome did not persist into adulthood as the gut microbiota profile showed modest changes in composition in adult vaginally-delivered and C-sectioned delivered subjects. From an immune perspective, concentrations of IL-1β and 1L-10 were higher in C-section participants. These data confirm that there is a potential enduring effect of delivery mode on the psychological responses to acute stress during early adulthood. The mental health implications of these observations require further study regarding policies on C-section use.


37804926|t|Possible role of tryptophan metabolism along the microbiota-gut-brain axis on cognitive & behavioral aspects in Phenylketonuria.
37804926|w|Sara Parolisi; Chiara Montanari; Elisa Borghi; Chiara Cazzorla; Juri Zuvadelli; Martina Tosi; Rita Barone; Giulia Bensi; Cristina Bonfanti; Carlo Dionisi Vici; Giacomo Biasucci; Alberto Burlina; Maria T Carbone; Elvira Verduci
37804926|j|Pharmacological research
37804926|y|2023
37804926|a|Cognitive and psychiatric disorders are well documented across the lifetime of patients with inborn errors of metabolism (IEMs). Gut microbiota impacts behavior and cognitive functions through the gut-brain axis (GBA). According to recent research, a broad spectrum of GBA disorders may be influenced by a perturbed Tryptophan (Trp) metabolism and are associated with alterations in composition or function of the gut microbiota. Furthermore, early-life diets may influence children's neurodevelopment and cognitive deficits in adulthood. In Phenylketonuria (PKU), since the main therapeutic intervention is based on a life-long restrictive diet, important alterations of gut microbiota have been observed. Studies on PKU highlight the impact of alterations of gut microbiota on the central nervous system (CNS), also investigating the involvement of metabolic pathways, such as Trp and kynurenine (KYN) metabolisms, involved in numerous neurodegenerative disorders. An alteration of Trp metabolism with an imbalance of the KYN pathway towards the production of neurotoxic metabolites implicated in numerous neurodegenerative and inflammatory diseases has been observed in PKU patients supplemented with Phe-free amino acid medical foods (AA-MF). The present review investigates the possible link between gut microbiota and the brain in IEMs, focusing on Trp metabolism in PKU. Considering the evidence collected, cognitive and behavioral well-being should always be monitored in routine IEMs clinical management. Further studies are required to evaluate the possible impact of Trp metabolism, through gut microbiota, on cognitive and behavioral functions in IEMs, to identify innovative dietetic strategies and improve quality of life and mental health of these patients.


38117827|t|The relationship between sleep, gut microbiota, and metabolome in patients with depression and anxiety: A secondary analysis of the observational study.
38117827|w|Arisa Tanaka; Kenji Sanada; Katsuma Miyaho; Tomoyuki Tachibana; Shunya Kurokawa; Chiharu Ishii; Yoshihiro Noda; Shinichiro Nakajima; Shinji Fukuda; Masaru Mimura; Taishiro Kishimoto; Akira Iwanami
38117827|j|PloS one
38117827|y|2023
38117827|a|Growing attention is paid to the association between alterations in the gut microbiota and their metabolites in patients with psychiatric disorders. Our study aimed to determine how gut microbiota and metabolomes are related to the sleep quality among patients with depression and anxiety disorders by analyzing the datasets of our previous study. Samples were collected from 40 patients (depression: 32 patients [80.0%]); anxiety disorders: 8 patients [20.0%]) in this study. Gut microbiomes were analyzed using 16S rRNA gene sequencing and gut metabolomes were analyzed by a mass spectrometry approach. Based on the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), patients were categorized into two groups: the insomnia group (PSQI score ≥ 9, n = 20) and the non-insomnia group (PSQI score < 9, n = 20). The insomnia group showed a lower alpha diversity in the Chao1 and Shannon indices than the non-insomnia group after the false discovery rate (FDR) correction. The relative abundance of genus Bacteroides showed a positive correlation with PSQI scores in the non-insomnia group. The concentrations of glucosamine and N-methylglutamate were significantly higher in the insomnia group than in the non-insomnia group. Our findings suggest that specific taxa could affect the sleep quality among patients with depression and anxiety disorders. Further studies are needed to elucidate the impact of sleep on specific gut microbiota and metabolomes in depression and anxiety disorders.


35855338|t|Effects of Ketogenic Diet on Neuroinflammation in Neurodegenerative Diseases.
35855338|w|Ziying Jiang; Xi Yin; Miao Wang; Tong Chen; Yuanyuan Wang; Zhongbao Gao; Zhenfu Wang
35855338|j|Aging and disease
35855338|y|2022
35855338|a|The ketogenic diet (KD) is a low-carbohydrate, high-fat and adequate-protein diet. As a diet mimicking fasting, it triggers the production of ketone bodies (KBs) and brings the body into a state of ketosis. Recent and accumulating studies on humans and animal models have shown that KD is beneficial to neurodegenerative diseases through modulating central and peripheral metabolism, mitochondrial function, inflammation, oxidative stress, autophagy, and the gut microbiome. Complicated interplay of metabolism, gut microbiome, and other mechanisms can regulate neuroinflammation in neurodegenerative diseases by activating multiple molecular and cellular pathways. In this review, we detail the physiological basis of the KD, its functions in regulating neuroinflammation, and its protective role in normal brain aging and neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Huntington's disease (HD). We aimed to elucidate the underlying neuroinflammatory mechanisms of KD therapies in neurodegenerative diseases and provide novel insights into their application for neurodegenerative disease prevention and treatment.


31709198|t|Characteristics of Gut Microbiota in Patients With Rheumatoid Arthritis in Shanghai, China.
31709198|w|Yang Sun; Qian Chen; Ping Lin; Rong Xu; Dongyi He; Weiqing Ji; Yanqin Bian; Yu Shen; Qingtian Li; Chang Liu; Ke Dong; Yi-Wei Tang; Zhiheng Pei; Liying Yang; Hongzhou Lu; Xiaokui Guo; Lianbo Xiao
31709198|j|Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology
31709198|y|2019
31709198|a|Little is known regarding differences in the gut microbiomes of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and healthy cohorts in China. This study aimed to identify differences in the fecal microbiomes of 66 Chinese patients with RA and 60 healthy Chinese controls. The V3-V4 variable regions of bacterial 16S rRNA genes were sequenced with the Illumina system to define the bacterial composition. The alpha-diversity index of the microbiome of the RA patients was significantly lower than that of the control group. The bacterial genera <i>Bacteroides</i> (<i>p</i> = 0.02202) and <i>Escherichia-Shigella</i> (<i>p</i> = 0.03137) were more abundant in RA patients. In contrast, <i>Lactobacillus</i> (<i>p</i> = 0.000014)<i>, Alloprevotella</i> (<i>p</i> = 0.0000008615)<i>, Enterobacter</i> (<i>p</i> = 0.000005759), and <i>Odoribacter</i> (<i>p</i> = 0.0000166) were less abundant in the RA group than in the control group. Spearman correlation analysis of blood physiological measures of RA showed that bacterial genera such as <i>Dorea</i> and <i>Ruminococcus</i> were positively correlated with RF-IgA and anti-CCP antibodies. Furthermore, <i>Alloprevotella</i> and <i>Parabacteroides</i> were positively correlated with the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and <i>Prevotella</i>-2 and <i>Alloprevotella</i> were positively correlated with C-reactive protein, both biomarkers of inflammation. These findings suggest that the gut microbiota may contribute to RA development via interactions with the host immune system.


38353184|t|Stressed to the Core: Inflammation and Intestinal Permeability Link Stress-Related Gut Microbiota Shifts to Mental Health Outcomes.
38353184|w|Annelise A Madison; Michael T Bailey
38353184|j|Biological psychiatry
38353184|y|2024
38353184|a|Stress levels are surging, alongside the incidence of stress-related psychiatric disorders. Perhaps a related phenomenon, especially in urban areas, the human gut contains fewer bacterial species than ever before. Although the functional implications of this absence are unclear, one consequence may be reduced stress resilience. Preclinical and clinical evidence has shown how stress exposure can alter the gut microbiota and their metabolites, affecting host physiology. Also, stress-related shifts in the gut microbiota jeopardize tight junctions of the gut barrier. In this context, bacteria and bacterial products can translocate from the gut to the bloodstream, lymph nodes, and other organs, thereby modifying systemic inflammatory responses. Heightened circulating inflammation can be an etiological factor in stress-related psychiatric disorders, including some cases of depression. In this review, we detail preclinical and clinical evidence that traces these brain-to-gut-to-brain pathways that underlie stress-related psychiatric disorders and potentially affect their responsivity to conventional psychiatric medications. We also review evidence for interventions that modulate the gut microbiota (e.g., antibiotics, probiotics, prebiotics) to reduce stress responses and psychiatric symptoms. Lastly, we discuss challenges to translation and opportunities for innovations that could impact future psychiatric clinical practice.


37307822|t|Brain-Gut-Microbiota Axis in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis: A Historical Overview and Future Directions.
37307822|w|Shilan Chen; Xinhong Cai; Lin Lao; Yuxuan Wang; Huanxing Su; Haitao Sun
37307822|j|Aging and disease
37307822|y|2024
37307822|a|Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease which is strongly associated with age. The incidence of ALS increases from the age of 40 and peaks between the ages of 65 and 70. Most patients die of respiratory muscle paralysis or lung infections within three to five years of the appearance of symptoms, dealing a huge blow to patients and their families. With aging populations, improved diagnostic methods and changes in reporting criteria, the incidence of ALS is likely to show an upward trend in the coming decades. Despite extensive researches have been done, the cause and pathogenesis of ALS remains unclear. In recent decades, large quantities of studies focusing on gut microbiota have shown that gut microbiota and its metabolites seem to change the evolvement of ALS through the brain-gut-microbiota axis, and in turn, the progression of ALS will exacerbate the imbalance of gut microbiota, thereby forming a vicious cycle. This suggests that further exploration and identification of the function of gut microbiota in ALS may be crucial to break the bottleneck in the diagnosis and treatment of this disease. Hence, the current review summarizes and discusses the latest research advancement and future directions of ALS and brain-gut-microbiota axis, so as to help relevant researchers gain correlative information instantly.


33921293|t|Non-Celiac Gluten/Wheat Sensitivity: Clinical Characteristics and Microbiota and Mycobiota Composition by Response to the Gluten Challenge Test.
33921293|w|Valentina Ponzo; Ilario Ferrocino; Ilaria Goitre; Marianna Pellegrini; Mauro Bruno; Marco Astegiano; Gianni Cadario; Eleonora Castellana; Fabio Bioletto; Maria Rita Corvaglia; Patrizia Malfa; Luca Cocolin; Ezio Ghigo; Simona Bo
33921293|j|Nutrients
33921293|y|2021
33921293|a|The aims of this observational "proof-of-concept" study were to analyze the clinical/psychological characteristics and gut microbiota/mycobiota composition of individuals with suspected non-celiac gluten/wheat sensitivity (NCGS/WS) according to responses to the double-blind-placebo-controlled (DBPC) crossover gluten challenge test. Fifty individuals with suspected NCGS/WS were subjected to the DBPC challenge test; anthropometric measurements, psychometric questionnaires, and fecal samples were collected. Twenty-seven (54%) participants were gluten responsive (NCGS), and 23 were placebo responsive, with an order effect. NCGS individuals displayed a significantly lower risk of eating disorders and a higher mental health score when compared to placebo-responsive participants, confirmed by multiple logistic regression analyses (OR = 0.87; 95% CI 0.76-0.98, <i>p</i> = 0.021, and OR = 1.30; 95% CI 1.06-1.59, <i>p</i> = 0.009, respectively). Principal coordinate analyses based on microbiota composition showed a separation by the DBPC response (<i>p</i> = 0.039). For <i>Bacteroides</i> (<i>p</i> = 0.05) and <i>Parabacteroides</i> (<i>p</i> = 0.007), the frequency of amplicon sequence variants was lower, and that for <i>Blautia</i> (<i>p</i> = 0.009) and <i>Streptococcus</i> (<i>p</i> = 0.004) was higher in NCGS individuals at multiple regression analyses. No difference in the mycobiota composition was detected between the groups. In conclusion, almost half of the individuals with suspected gluten sensitivity reported symptoms with placebo; they showed lower mental health scores, increased risk for eating disorders, and a different gut microbiota composition.


36244525|t|Combined oral contraceptives and mental health: Are adolescence and the gut-brain axis the missing links?
36244525|w|Sarah Kheloui; Andra Smith; Nafissa Ismail
36244525|j|Frontiers in neuroendocrinology
36244525|y|2023
36244525|a|Combined oral contraceptives (containing synthetic forms of estradiol and progestins) are one of the most commonly used drugs among females. However, their effects on the gut-brain axis have not been investigated to a great extent despite clear evidence that suggest bi-directional interactions between the gut microbiome and endogenous sex hormones. Moreover, oral contraceptives are prescribed during adolescence, a critical period of development during which several brain structures and systems, such as hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, undergo maturation. Considering that oral contraceptives could impact the developing adolescent brain and that these effects may be mediated by the gut-brain axis, further research investigating the effects of oral contraceptives on the gut-brain axis is imperative. This article briefly reviews evidence from animal and human studies on the effects of combined oral contraceptives on the brain and the gut microbiota particularly during adolescence.


31380217|t|Gut Microbiota Changes in Patients with Bipolar Depression.
31380217|w|Shaohua Hu; Ang Li; Tingting Huang; Jianbo Lai; Jingjing Li; M Elizabeth Sublette; Haifeng Lu; Qiaoqiao Lu; Yanli Du; Zhiying Hu; Chee H Ng; Hua Zhang; Jing Lu; Tingting Mou; Shaojia Lu; Dandan Wang; Jinfeng Duan; Jianbo Hu; Manli Huang; Ning Wei; Weihua Zhou; Liemin Ruan; Ming D Li; Yi Xu
31380217|j|Advanced science (Weinheim, Baden-Wurttemberg, Germany)
31380217|y|2019
31380217|a|This study aims to characterize the gut microbiota in depressed patients with bipolar disorder (BD) compared with healthy controls (HCs), to examine the effects of quetiapine treatment on the microbiota, and to explore the potential of microbiota as a biomarker for BD diagnosis and treatment outcome. Analysis of 16S-ribosomal RNA gene sequences reveals that gut microbial composition and diversity are significantly different between BD patients and HCs. Phylum <i>Bacteroidetes</i> and <i>Firmicutes</i> are the predominant bacterial communities in BD patients and HCs, respectively. Lower levels of butyrate-producing bacteria are observed in untreated patients. Microbial composition changes following quetiapine treatment in BD patients. Notably, 30 microbial markers are identified on a random forest model and achieve an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.81 between untreated patients and HCs. Ten microbial markers are identified with the AUC of 0.93 between responder and nonresponder patients. This study characterizes the gut microbiota in BD and is the first to evaluate microbial changes following quetiapine monotherapy. Gut microbiota-based biomarkers may be helpful in BD diagnosis and predicting treatment outcome, which need further validations.


29358918|t|Longitudinal Analysis of Fecal Microbiome and Pathologic Processes in a Rotenone Induced Mice Model of Parkinson's Disease.
29358918|w|Xiaodong Yang; Yiwei Qian; Shaoqing Xu; Yanyan Song; Qin Xiao
29358918|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
29358918|y|2017
29358918|a|Recent studies reported an association between gut microbiota composition and Parkinson's disease (PD). However, we know little about the relationship between microbiome dysbiosis and the pathogenesis of PD. The objective of this study was to describe the evolution of fecal microbiota using an oral rotenone model of PD from a longitudinal study over a period of 4 weeks. Gastrointestinal function was assessed by measuring fecal pellet output, motor functions was assessed by open-field and pole tests every week. α-synuclein pathology, inflammation and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) neuron loss from the middle brain were also analyzed. Fecal samples were collected every week followed by 16S rRNA sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. We reported that chronically oral administered rotenone caused gastrointestinal dysfunction and microbiome dysbiosis prior to motor dysfunction and central nervous system (CNS) pathology. 16S rRNA sequencing of fecal microbiome showed rotenone-treated mice exhibited fecal microbiota dysbiosis characterized by an overall decrease in bacterial diversity and a significant change of microbiota composition, notably members of the phyla Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes, with an increase in Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio after 3 weeks of rotenone treatment. Moreover, rotenone-induced gastrointestinal and motor dysfunctions were observed to be robustly correlated with changes in the composition of fecal microbiota. Our results demonstrated that gut microbiome perturbation might contribute to rotenone toxicity in the initiation of PD and brought a new insight in the pathogenesis of PD. Novel therapeutic options aimed at modifying the gut microbiota composition might postpone the onset and following cascade of neurodegeneration.


37892465|t|The Gut-Brain Axis in Schizophrenia: The Implications of the Gut Microbiome and SCFA Production.
37892465|w|Songhyun Ju; Yoonhwa Shin; Sunhee Han; Juhui Kwon; Tae Gyu Choi; Insug Kang; Sung Soo Kim
37892465|j|Nutrients
37892465|y|2023
37892465|a|Schizophrenia, a severe mental illness affecting about 1% of the population, manifests during young adulthood, leading to abnormal mental function and behavior. Its multifactorial etiology involves genetic factors, experiences of adversity, infection, and gene-environment interactions. Emerging research indicates that maternal infection or stress during pregnancy may also increase schizophrenia risk in offspring. Recent research on the gut-brain axis highlights the gut microbiome's potential influence on central nervous system (CNS) function and mental health, including schizophrenia. The gut microbiota, located in the digestive system, has a significant role to play in human physiology, affecting immune system development, vitamin synthesis, and protection against pathogenic bacteria. Disruptions to the gut microbiota, caused by diet, medication use, environmental pollutants, and stress, may lead to imbalances with far-reaching effects on CNS function and mental health. Of interest are short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), metabolic byproducts produced by gut microbes during fermentation. SCFAs can cross the blood-brain barrier, influencing CNS activity, including microglia and cytokine modulation. The dysregulation of neurotransmitters produced by gut microbes may contribute to CNS disorders, including schizophrenia. This review explores the potential relationship between SCFAs, the gut microbiome, and schizophrenia. Our aim is to deepen the understanding of the gut-brain axis in schizophrenia and to elucidate its implications for future research and therapeutic approaches.


38406183|t|Gut microbiota, nutrition, and mental health.
38406183|w|Gia Merlo; Gabrielle Bachtel; Steven G Sugden
38406183|j|Frontiers in nutrition
38406183|y|2024
38406183|a|The human brain remains one of the greatest challenges for modern medicine, yet it is one of the most integral and sometimes overlooked aspects of medicine. The human brain consists of roughly 100 billion neurons, 100 trillion neuronal connections and consumes about 20-25% of the body's energy. Emerging evidence highlights that insufficient or inadequate nutrition is linked to an increased risk of brain health, mental health, and psychological functioning compromise. A core component of this relationship includes the intricate dynamics of the brain-gut-microbiota (BGM) system, which is a progressively recognized factor in the sphere of mental/brain health. The bidirectional relationship between the brain, gut, and gut microbiota along the BGM system not only affects nutrient absorption and utilization, but also it exerts substantial influence on cognitive processes, mood regulation, neuroplasticity, and other indices of mental/brain health. Neuroplasticity is the brain's capacity for adaptation and neural regeneration in response to stimuli. Understanding neuroplasticity and considering interventions that enhance the remarkable ability of the brain to change through experience constitutes a burgeoning area of research that has substantial potential for improving well-being, resilience, and overall brain health through optimal nutrition and lifestyle interventions. The nexus of lifestyle interventions and both academic and clinical perspectives of nutritional neuroscience emerges as a potent tool to enhance patient outcomes, proactively mitigate mental/brain health challenges, and improve the management and treatment of existing mental/brain health conditions by championing health-promoting dietary patterns, rectifying nutritional deficiencies, and seamlessly integrating nutrition-centered strategies into clinical care.


26497477|t|The Microbiome in Mental Health: Potential Contribution of Gut Microbiota in Disease and Pharmacotherapy Management.
26497477|w|Stephanie A Flowers; Vicki L Ellingrod
26497477|j|Pharmacotherapy
26497477|y|2015
26497477|a|The gut microbiome is composed of ~10(13) -10(14) microbial cells and viruses that exist in a symbiotic bidirectional communicative relationship with the host. Bacterial functions in the gut have an important role in healthy host metabolic function, and dysbiosis can contribute to the pathology of many medical conditions. Alterations in the relationship between gut microbiota and host have gained some attention in mental health because new evidence supports the association of gut bacteria to cognitive and emotional processes. Of interest, illnesses such as major depressive disorder are disproportionately prevalent in patients with gastrointestinal illnesses such as inflammatory bowel disease, which pathologically has been strongly linked to microbiome function. Not only is the microbiome associated with the disease itself, but it may also influence the effectiveness or adverse effects associated with pharmacologic agents used to treat these disorders. This field of study may also provide new insights on how dietary agents may help manage mental illness both directly as well as though their influence on the therapeutic and adverse effects of psychotropic agents.


36442206|t|Parkinson's Disease and the Gut Microbiome in Rural California.
36442206|w|Keren Zhang; Kimberly C Paul; Jonathan P Jacobs; Hsiang-Chin Lori Chou; Aline Duarte Folle; Irish Del Rosario; Yu Yu; Jeff M Bronstein; Adrienne M Keener; Beate Ritz
36442206|j|Journal of Parkinson's disease
36442206|y|2022
36442206|a|Increasing evidence connects the gut microbiome to Parkinson's disease (PD) etiology, but little is known about microbial contributions to PD progression and its clinical features. We aim to explore the association between the gut microbiome with PD, and the microbial association with PD-specific clinical features. In a community-based case-control study of 96 PD patients and 74 controls, microbiome data were obtained from 16S rRNA gene sequencing of fecal samples, and analyzed for microbial diversity, taxa abundance, and predicted functional pathways that differed in PD patients and controls, and their association with PD-specific features (disease duration, motor subtypes, L-DOPA daily dose, and motor function). PD patients' gut microbiome showed lower species diversity (p = 0.04) and were compositionally different (p = 0.002) compared to controls but had a higher abundance of three phyla (Proteobacteria, Verrucomicrobiota, Actinobacteria) and five genera (Akkermansia, Enterococcus, Hungatella, and two Ruminococcaceae) controlling for sex, race, age, and sequencing platform. Also, 35 Metacyc pathways were predicted to be differentially expressed in PD patients including biosynthesis, compound degradation/utilization/assimilation, generation of metabolites and energy, and glycan pathways. Additionally, the postural instability gait dysfunction subtype was associated with three phyla and the NAD biosynthesis pathway. PD duration was associated with the Synergistota phylum, six genera, and the aromatic compound degradation pathways. Two genera were associated with motor function. PD patients differed from controls in gut microbiome composition and its predicted metagenome. Clinical features were also associated with bacterial taxa and altered metabolic pathways of interest for PD progression.


37914097|t|Priming of microglia with dysfunctional gut microbiota impairs hippocampal neurogenesis and fosters stress vulnerability of mice.
37914097|w|Hui He; Haili He; Li Mo; Zili You; Jinqiang Zhang
37914097|j|Brain, behavior, and immunity
37914097|y|2024
37914097|a|Mental disorders may be involved in neuroinflammatory processes that are triggered by gut microbiota. How gut microbiota influence microglia-mediated sensitivity to stress remains unclear. Here we explored in an animal model of depression whether disruption of the gut microbiome primes hippocampal microglia, thereby impairing neurogenesis and sensitizing to stress. Male C57BL/6J mice were exposed to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) for 4 weeks, and effects on gut microbiota were assessed using 16S rRNA sequencing. Fecal microbiota was transplanted from control or CUMS mice into naïve animals. The depression-like behaviors of recipients were evaluated in a forced swimming test and sucrose preference test. The morphology and phenotype of microglia in the hippocampus of recipients were examined using immunohistochemistry, quantitative PCR, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. The recipients were treated with lipopolysaccharide or chronic stress exposure, and effects were evaluated on behavior, microglial responses and hippocampal neurogenesis. Finally, we explored the ability of minocycline to reverse the effects of CUMS on hippocampal neurogenesis and stress sensitivity in recipients. CUMS altered the gut microbiome, leading to higher relative abundance of some bacteria (Helicobacter, Bacteroides, and Desulfovibrio) and lower relative abundance of some bacteria (Lactobacillus, Bifidobacterium, and Akkermansia). Fecal microbiota transplantation from CUMS mice to naïve animals induced microglial priming in the dentate gyrus of recipients. This microglia showed hyper-ramified morphology, and became more sensitive to LPS challenge or chronic stress, which characterized by more significant morphological changes and inflammatory responses, as well as impaired hippocampal neurogenesis and increased depressive-like behaviors. Giving minocycline to recipients reversed these effects of fecal transplantation. These findings suggest that gut microbiota from stressed animals can induce microglial priming in the dentate gyrus, which is associated with a hyper-immune response to stress and impaired hippocampal neurogenesis. Remodeling the gut microbiome or inhibiting microglial priming may be strategies to reduce sensitivity to stress.


32989186|t|Effects of a Psychobiotic Supplement on Serum Brain-derived Neurotrophic Factor Levels in Depressive Patients: A <i>Post Hoc</i> Analysis of a Randomized Clinical Trial.
32989186|w|Nazanin Heidarzadeh-Rad; Hülya Gökmen-Özel; Asma Kazemi; Negin Almasi; Kurosh Djafarian
32989186|j|Journal of neurogastroenterology and motility
32989186|y|2020
32989186|a|Psychobiotics are probiotics or prebiotics that, upon ingestion in adequate amounts, yield positive influence on mental health via microbiota-gut-brain axis regulation to modulate the circulating cytokines, chemokines, neurotransmitters, or neurotrophins levels. We have recently shown that a psychobiotic combination (<i>Lactobacillus helveticus</i> R0052 and <i>Bifidobacterium longum</i> R0175; CEREBIOME) significantly improved depression symptoms in patients with depression. Recent animal data suggest the influence of the gut microbiota on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which was shown to correlate with antidepressant response in depressive patients. Therefore, we conducted this exploratory <i>post hoc</i> analysis of BDNF levels to clarify the mechanism of action of this psychobiotic in our cohort. Our study was a double-blind, randomized controlled trial of patients with low-to-moderate depression receiving either a probiotic combination, prebiotic or placebo. From the 110 patients randomized in the trial, 78 were included in this <i>post hoc</i> analysis (probiotic, n = 28; prebiotic and placebo, n = 25). We compared serum BDNF levels from participants at baseline and endpoint, and assessed the Pearson correlation between depression severity and BDNF levels for each intervention. We found that post-intervention BDNF levels were significantly different between groups (<i>P</i> < 0.001). Furthermore, BDNF levels increased significantly in the probiotic group compared to both the prebiotic (<i>P</i> < 0.001) and placebo groups (<i>P</i> = 0.021), which inversely correlated with depression severity compared to placebo (ANOVA/ANCOVA, <i>P</i> = 0.012; Pearson, <i>r</i> = -0.79, <i>P</i> < 0.001). In the prebiotic group, BDNF levels reduced but not significantly compared with placebo group (<i>P</i> > 0.05). Eight-week supplementation with B. longum and L. helveticus in depressive patients improved depression symptoms, possibly by increasing BDNF levels.


31405122|t|Health Benefits of <i>Lactobacillus gasseri</i> CP2305 Tablets in Young Adults Exposed to Chronic Stress: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study.
31405122|w|Kensei Nishida; Daisuke Sawada; Yuki Kuwano; Hiroki Tanaka; Kazuhito Rokutan
31405122|j|Nutrients
31405122|y|2019
31405122|a|Short-term administration of <i>Lactobacillus gasseri</i> CP2305 improves stress-associated symptoms and clinical symptoms in healthy young adults and in patients with irritable bowel syndrome, respectively. We evaluated the efficacy and health benefits of the long-term use of a tablet containing heat-inactivated, washed <i>Lactobacillus gasseri</i> CP2305 (CP2305) in healthy young adults. Sixty Japanese medical students (41 men and 19 women) preparing for the national examination for medical practitioners ingested CP2305-containing or placebo tablets once daily for 24 weeks. Intake of the CP2305 tablet significantly reduced anxiety and sleep disturbance relative to placebo, as quantitated by the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. Single-channel sleep electroencephalograms show that CP2305 significantly shortened sleep latency and wake time after sleep onset and increased the delta power ratio in the first sleep cycle. CP2305 also significantly lowered salivary chromogranin A levels compared with placebo. Furthermore, 16S rRNA gene sequencing of participant feces demonstrated that CP2305 administration attenuated the stress-induced decline of <i>Bifidobacterium</i> spp. and the stress-induced elevation of <i>Streptococcus</i> spp. We conclude that the long-term use of CP2305-containing tablets may improve the mental state, sleep quality, and gut microbiota of healthy adults under stressful conditions.


28624847|t|The microbiome-gut-brain axis: implications for schizophrenia and antipsychotic induced weight gain.
28624847|w|S Kanji; T M Fonseka; V S Marshe; V Sriretnakumar; M K Hahn; D J Müller
28624847|j|European archives of psychiatry and clinical neuroscience
28624847|y|2018
28624847|a|With the emergence of knowledge implicating the human gut microbiome in the development and regulation of several physiological systems, evidence has accumulated to suggest a role for the gut microbiome in psychiatric conditions and drug response. A complex relationship between the enteric nervous system, the gut microbiota and the central nervous system has been described which allows for the microbiota to influence and respond to a variety of behaviors and psychiatric conditions. Additionally, the use of pharmaceuticals may interact with and alter the microbiota to potentially contribute to adverse effects of the drug. The gut microbiota has been described in several psychiatric disorders including depression and anxiety, but only a few reports have discussed the role of the microbiome in schizophrenia. The following review examines the evidence surrounding the gut microbiota in behavior and psychiatric illness, the role of the microbiota in schizophrenia and the potential for antipsychotics to alter the gut microbiota and promote adverse metabolic events.


31479418|t|Antibiotic-induced microbiome depletion protects against MPTP-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity in the brain.
31479418|w|Yaoyu Pu; Lijia Chang; Youge Qu; Siming Wang; Kai Zhang; Kenji Hashimoto
31479418|j|Aging
31479418|y|2019
31479418|a|Although the brain-gut axis appears to play a role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, the precise mechanisms underlying the actions of gut microbiota in this disease are unknown. This study was undertaken to investigate whether antibiotic-induced microbiome depletion affects dopaminergic neurotoxicity in the mouse brain after administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). MPTP significantly decreased dopamine transporter (DAT) immunoreactivity in the striatum and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity in the substantia nigra of water-treated mice. However, MPTP did not decrease DAT or TH immunoreactivity in the brains of mice treated with an antibiotic cocktail. Furthermore, antibiotic treatment significantly decreased the diversity and altered the composition of the host gut microbiota at the genus and species levels. Interestingly, MPTP also altered microbiome composition in antibiotic-treated mice. These findings suggest that antibiotic-induced microbiome depletion might protect against MPTP-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity in the brain via the brain-gut axis.


38260072|t|Alterations in gut microbiota caused by major depressive disorder or a low FODMAP diet and where they overlap.
38260072|w|Simone O'Neill; Michelle Minehan; Catherine R Knight-Agarwal; David B Pyne
38260072|j|Frontiers in nutrition
38260072|y|2023
38260072|a|Beneficial changes in microbiota observed in individuals with a major depressive disorder (MDD) may be initiated with a low fermentable oligosaccharide, disaccharide, monosaccharide, and polyol (FODMAP) elimination diet. Academic Search Ultimate, APA PsychINFO, Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, Scopus and Web of Science were searched for original research documenting differences in microbiota in MDD or changes with a low FODMAP diet in adults (age 18 years +). Studies with fecal microbiota, 16 s RNA sequencing and QIIME pipelines were included. Studies using antibiotics, probiotics, and medications such as antidepressants were excluded. Additionally, studies based on a single gender were excluded as gender impacts microbiota changes in MDD. Four studies addressed differences in microbiota with MDD and another four assessed shifts occurring with a low FODMAP diet. The abundance of <i>Bacteroidetes</i>, <i>Bacteroidaceae</i> and <i>Bacteroides</i> were lower in individuals with MDD but increased with a low FODMAP diet. Abundance of <i>Ruminoccaceae</i> was lower and <i>Bilophila</i> was higher with both a low FODMAP diet and MDD. These results provide preliminary evidence that a low FODMAP diet might drive changes in microbiota that also benefit people with MDD. Further research to assess whether a low FODMAP diet can treat MDD through modification of targeted microbiota is warranted.


32279681|t|Infant microbiota in colic: predictive associations with problem crying and subsequent child behavior.
32279681|w|Amy Loughman; Thomas Quinn; Monica L Nation; Amy Reichelt; Robert J Moore; Thi Thu Hao Van; Valerie Sung; Mimi L K Tang
32279681|j|Journal of developmental origins of health and disease
32279681|y|2021
32279681|a|Infant colic is a condition of unknown cause which can result in carer distress and attachment difficulties. Recent studies have implicated the gut microbiota in infant colic, and certain probiotics have demonstrated possible efficacy. We aim to investigate whether the intestinal microbiota composition in infants with colic is associated with cry/fuss time at baseline, persistence of cry/fuss at 4-week follow-up, or child behavior at 2 years of age. Fecal samples from infants with colic (n = 118, 53% male) were analyzed using 16S rRNA sequencing. After examining the alpha and beta diversity of the clinical samples, we performed a differential abundance analysis of the 16S data to look for taxa that associate with baseline and future behavior, while adjusting for potential confounding variables. In addition, we used random forest classifiers to evaluate how well baseline gut microbiota can predict future crying time. Alpha diversity of the fecal microbiota was strongly influenced by birth mode, feed type, and child gender, but did not significantly associate with crying or behavioral outcomes. Several taxa within the microbiota (including Bifidobacterium, Clostridium, Lactobacillus, and Klebsiella) associate with colic severity, and the baseline microbiota composition can predict further crying at 4 weeks with up to 65% accuracy. The combination of machine learning findings with associative relationships demonstrates the potential prognostic utility of the infant fecal microbiota in predicting subsequent infant crying problems.


36650644|t|Sex difference in prebiotics on gut and blood-brain barrier dysfunction underlying stress-induced anxiety and depression.
36650644|w|Jiajun Jiang; Yaoyang Fu; Anying Tang; Xingle Gao; Danhua Zhang; Yuting Shen; Tingting Mou; Shaohua Hu; Jingfang Gao; Jianbo Lai
36650644|j|CNS neuroscience & therapeutics
36650644|y|2023
36650644|a|Most of the previous studies have demonstrated the potential antidepressive and anxiolytic role of prebiotic supplement in male subjects, yet few have females enrolled. Herein, we explored whether prebiotics administration during chronic stress prevented depression-like and anxiety-like behavior in a sex-specific manner and the mechanism of behavioral differences caused by sex. Female and male C57 BL/J mice on normal diet were supplemented with or without a combination of fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS) and galacto-oligosaccharides (GOS) during 3- and 4-week chronic restraint stress (CRS) treatment, respectively. C57 BL/J mice on normal diet without CRS were used as controls. Behavior consequences, gut microbiota, dysfunction of gut and brain-blood barriers, and inflammatory profiles were measured. In the 3rd week, FOS + GOS administration attenuated stress-induced anxiety-like behavior in female, but not in male mice, and the anxiolytic effects in males were observed until the 4th week. However, protective effects of prebiotics on CRS-induced depression were not observed. Changes in the gene expression of tight junction proteins in the distal colon and hippocampus, and decreased number of colon goblet cells following CRS were restored by prebiotics only in females. In both female and male mice, prebiotics alleviated stress-induced BBB dysfunction and elevation in pro-inflammatory cytokines levels, and modulated gut microbiota caused by stress. Furthermore, correlation analysis revealed that anxiety-like behaviors were significantly correlated with levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and gene expression of tight junction proteins in the hippocampus of female mice, and the abundance of specific gut microbes was also correlated with anxiety-like behaviors, pro-inflammatory cytokines, and gene expression of tight junction proteins in the hippocampus of female mice. Female mice were more vulnerable to stress and prebiotics than males. The gut microbiota, gut and blood-brain barrier, and inflammatory response may mediate the protective effects of prebiotics on anxiety-like behaviors in female mice.


34201752|t|Dietary Fibre Intervention for Gut Microbiota, Sleep, and Mental Health in Adults with Irritable Bowel Syndrome: A Scoping Review.
34201752|w|Ran Yan; Lesley Andrew; Evania Marlow; Kanita Kunaratnam; Amanda Devine; Ian C Dunican; Claus T Christophersen
34201752|j|Nutrients
34201752|y|2021
34201752|a|Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common functional gastrointestinal disorder affecting 4-5% of the global population. This disorder is associated with gut microbiota, diet, sleep, and mental health. This scoping review therefore aims to map existing research that has administrated fibre-related dietary intervention to IBS individuals and reported outcomes on at least two of the three following themes: gut microbiota, sleep, and mental health. Five digital databases were searched to identify and select papers as per the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Five articles were included in the assessment, where none reported on all three themes or the combination of gut microbiota and sleep. Two studies identified alterations in gut microbiota and mental health with fibre supplementation. The other three studies reported on mental health and sleep outcomes using subjective questionnaires. IBS-related research lacks system biology-type studies targeting gut microbiota, sleep, and mental health in patients undergoing diet intervention. Further IBS research is required to explore how human gut microbiota functions (such as short-chain fatty acids) in sleep and mental health, following the implementation of dietary pattern alteration or component supplementation. Additionally, the application of objective sleep assessments is required in order to detect sleep change with more accuracy and less bias.


34033061|t|The Intersection of Parkinson's Disease, Viral Infections, and COVID-19.
34033061|w|Benjamin Rosen; Alberim Kurtishi; Gonzalo R Vazquez-Jimenez; Simon Geir Møller
34033061|j|Molecular neurobiology
34033061|y|2021
34033061|a|The Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the causative agent of human COVID-19, not only causes flu-like symptoms and gut microbiome complications but a large number of infected individuals also experience a host of neurological symptoms including loss of smell and taste, seizures, difficulty concentrating, decreased alertness, and brain inflammation. Although SARS-CoV-2 infections are not more prevalent in Parkinson's disease patients, a higher mortality rate has been reported not only associated with older age and longer disease duration, but also through several mechanisms, such as interactions with the brain dopaminergic system and through systemic inflammatory responses. Indeed, a number of the neurological symptoms seen in COVID-19 patients, as well as the alterations in the gut microbiome, are also prevalent in patients with Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, biochemical pathways such as oxidative stress, inflammation, and protein aggregation have shared commonalities between Parkinson's disease and COVID-19 disease progression. In this review, we describe and compare the numerous similarities and intersections between neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease and RNA viral infections, emphasizing the current SARS-CoV-2 global health crisis.


33421542|t|Bipolar disorder: An evolutionary psychoneuroimmunological approach.
33421542|w|Markus J Rantala; Severi Luoto; Javier I Borráz-León; Indrikis Krams
33421542|j|Neuroscience and biobehavioral reviews
33421542|y|2021
33421542|a|Bipolar disorder is a mental health disorder characterized by extreme shifts in mood, high suicide rate, sleep problems, and dysfunction of psychological traits like self-esteem (feeling inferior when depressed and superior when manic). Bipolar disorder is rare among populations that have not adopted contemporary Western lifestyles, which supports the hypothesis that bipolar disorder results from a mismatch between Homo sapiens's evolutionary and current environments. Recent studies have connected bipolar disorder with low-grade inflammation, the malfunctioning of the internal clock, and the resulting sleep disturbances. Stress is often a triggering factor for mania and sleep problems, but stress also causes low-grade inflammation. Since inflammation desynchronizes the internal clock, chronic stress and inflammation are the primary biological mechanisms behind bipolar disorder. Chronic stress and inflammation are driven by contemporary Western lifestyles, including stressful social environments, unhealthy dietary patterns, limited physical activity, and obesity. The treatment of bipolar disorder should focus on reducing stress, stress sensitivity, and inflammation by lifestyle changes rather than just temporarily alleviating symptoms with psychopharmacological interventions.


37304433|t|Altered gut microbiota profile in patients with perimenopausal panic disorder.
37304433|w|Shen Lin; Hongjin Wang; Jingjing Qiu; Minghong Li; Ebin Gao; Xiaofeng Wu; Yunxiang Xu; Guizhen Chen
37304433|j|Frontiers in psychiatry
37304433|y|2023
37304433|a|Females in the perimenopausal period are susceptible to mood disorders. Perimenopausal panic disorder (PPD) is characterized by repeated and unpredictable panic attacks during perimenopause, and it impacts the patient's physical and mental health and social function. Pharmacotherapy is limited in the clinic, and its pathological mechanism is unclear. Recent studies have demonstrated that gut microbiota is strongly linked to emotion; however, the relation between PPD and microbiota is limitedly known. This study aimed to discover specific microbiota in PPD patients and the intrinsic connection between them. Gut microbiota was analyzed in PPD patients (<i>n</i> = 40) and healthy controls (<i>n</i> = 40) by 16S rRNA sequencing. The results showed reduced α-diversity (richness) in the gut microbiota of PPD patients. β-diversity indicated that PPD and healthy controls had different intestinal microbiota compositions. At the genus level, 30 species of microbiota abundance had significantly different between the PPD and healthy controls. In addition, HAMA, PDSS, and PASS scales were collected in two groups. It was found that Bacteroides and Alistipes were positively correlated with PASS, PDSS, and HAMA. Bacteroides and Alistipes dysbiosis dominate imbalanced microbiota in PPD patients. This microbial alteration may be a potential pathogenesis and physio-pathological feature of PPD. The distinct gut microbiota can be a potential diagnostic marker and a new therapeutic target for PPD.


33094505|t|Gut dysbiosis associated with the rats' responses in methamphetamine-induced conditioned place preference.
33094505|w|Cheng Yang; Xiaoya Fu; Wei Hao; Xiaojun Xiang; Tieqiao Liu; Bao-Zhu Yang; Xiaojie Zhang
33094505|j|Addiction biology
33094505|y|2021
33094505|a|Methamphetamine (MA) is a potent stimulant and notoriously addictive. Individuals respond to MA effects differently and thus have a varying susceptible risk of developing MA use disorder. Cumulative evidence has indicated that gut dysbiosis contributes to behavioral response to drug effects. However, the role of gut microbiota in the susceptible risk of developing MA use disorder has remained elusive. Using an MA-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) rat model, we administrated the same dose of MA to rats, which then showed distinct preferences in drug-related place, indicating their different responses to MA. From all of the MA-exposed rats, the eight with the highest CPP scores were labeled as group high CPP (H-CPP), and the eight with the lowest were labeled as group low CPP (L-CPP). By 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequencing, we found that the gut microbiota compositions differed between H-CPP and L-CPP. Specifically, Akkermansia was significantly higher in H-CPP and positively correlated with the CPP scores. Notably, H-CPP and L-CPP differed in the gut microbiota composition prior to the CPP training; Ruminococcus was the dominant phylotype in H-CPP at baseline. More importantly, rats pretreated by antibiotics showed a significantly stronger MA-induced CPP than did the controls. Our study demonstrates that the gut dysbiosis was associated with the MA-induced CPP, indicating that the gut microbiota might be important modulators for MA-induced behavior and vulnerability to MA use disorder.


37375679|t|New Pieces for an Old Puzzle: Approaching Parkinson's Disease from Translatable Animal Models, Gut Microbiota Modulation, and Lipidomics.
37375679|w|Lorena Ortega Moreno; Ana Bagues; Vicente Martínez; Raquel Abalo
37375679|j|Nutrients
37375679|y|2023
37375679|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a severe neurodegenerative disease characterized by disabling motor alterations that are diagnosed at a relatively late stage in its development, and non-motor symptoms, including those affecting the gastrointestinal tract (mainly constipation), which start much earlier than the motor symptoms. Remarkably, current treatments only reduce motor symptoms, not without important drawbacks (relatively low efficiency and impactful side effects). Thus, new approaches are needed to halt PD progression and, possibly, to prevent its development, including new therapeutic strategies that target PD etiopathogeny and new biomarkers. Our aim was to review some of these new approaches. Although PD is complex and heterogeneous, compelling evidence suggests it might have a gastrointestinal origin, at least in a significant number of patients, and findings in recently developed animal models strongly support this hypothesis. Furthermore, the modulation of the gut microbiome, mainly through probiotics, is being tested to improve motor and non-motor symptoms and even to prevent PD. Finally, lipidomics has emerged as a useful tool to identify lipid biomarkers that may help analyze PD progression and treatment efficacy in a personalized manner, although, as of today, it has only scarcely been applied to monitor gut motility, dysbiosis, and probiotic effects in PD. Altogether, these new pieces should be helpful in solving the old puzzle of PD.


35610236|t|Probiotics synergized with conventional regimen in managing Parkinson's disease.
35610236|w|Hairong Sun; Feiyan Zhao; Yuanyuan Liu; Teng Ma; Hao Jin; Keyu Quan; Bing Leng; Junwu Zhao; Xiaoling Yuan; Zhenguang Li; Fang Li; Lai-Yu Kwok; Shukun Zhang; Zhihong Sun; Jinbiao Zhang; Heping Zhang
35610236|j|NPJ Parkinson's disease
35610236|y|2022
35610236|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is mainly managed by pharmacological therapy (e.g., Benserazide and dopamine agonists). However, prolonged use of these drugs would gradually diminish their dopaminergic effect. Gut dysbiosis was observed in some patients with PD, suggesting close association between the gut microbiome and PD. Probiotics modulate the host's gut microbiota beneficially. A 3-month randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial was conducted to investigate the beneficial effect of probiotic co-administration in patients with PD. Eighty-two PD patients were recruited and randomly divided into probiotic [n = 48; Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis Probio-M8 (Probio-M8), Benserazide, dopamine agonists] and placebo (n = 34; placebo, Benserazide, dopamine agonists) groups. Finally, 45 and 29 patients from Probio-M8 and placebo groups provided complete fecal and serum samples for further omics analysis, respectively. The results showed that Probio-M8 co-administration conferred added benefits by improving sleep quality, alleviating anxiety, and gastrointestinal symptoms. Metagenomic analysis showed that, after the intervention, there were significantly more species-level genome bins (SGBs) of Bifidobacterium animalis, Ruminococcaceae, and Lachnospira, while less Lactobacillus fermentum and Klebsiella oxytoca in Probio-M8 group (P < 0.05). Interestingly, Lactobacillus fermentum correlated positively with the scores of UPDRS-III, HAMA, HAMD-17, and negatively with MMSE. Klebsiella oxytoca correlated negatively with feces hardness. Moreover, co-administering Probio-M8 increased SGBs involved in tryptophan degradation, gamma-aminobutyric acid, short-chain fatty acids, and secondary bile acid biosynthesis, as well as serum acetic acid and dopamine levels (P < 0.05). Taken together, Probio-M8 synergized with the conventional regimen and strengthened the clinical efficacy in managing PD, accompanied by modifications of the host's gut microbiome, gut microbial metabolic potential, and serum metabolites.


29213271|t|Visceral Inflammation and Immune Activation Stress the Brain.
29213271|w|Peter Holzer; Aitak Farzi; Ahmed M Hassan; Geraldine Zenz; Angela Jačan; Florian Reichmann
29213271|j|Frontiers in immunology
29213271|y|2017
29213271|a|Stress refers to a dynamic process in which the homeostasis of an organism is challenged, the outcome depending on the type, severity, and duration of stressors involved, the stress responses triggered, and the stress resilience of the organism. Importantly, the relationship between stress and the immune system is bidirectional, as not only stressors have an impact on immune function, but alterations in immune function themselves can elicit stress responses. Such bidirectional interactions have been prominently identified to occur in the gastrointestinal tract in which there is a close cross-talk between the gut microbiota and the local immune system, governed by the permeability of the intestinal mucosa. External stressors disturb the homeostasis between microbiota and gut, these disturbances being signaled to the brain <i>via</i> multiple communication pathways constituting the gut-brain axis, ultimately eliciting stress responses and perturbations of brain function. In view of these relationships, the present article sets out to highlight some of the interactions between peripheral immune activation, especially in the visceral system, and brain function, behavior, and stress coping. These issues are exemplified by the way through which the intestinal microbiota as well as microbe-associated molecular patterns including lipopolysaccharide communicate with the immune system and brain, and the mechanisms whereby overt inflammation in the GI tract impacts on emotional-affective behavior, pain sensitivity, and stress coping. The interactions between the peripheral immune system and the brain take place along the gut-brain axis, the major communication pathways of which comprise microbial metabolites, gut hormones, immune mediators, and sensory neurons. Through these signaling systems, several transmitter and neuropeptide systems within the brain are altered under conditions of peripheral immune stress, enabling adaptive processes related to stress coping and resilience to take place. These aspects of the impact of immune stress on molecular and behavioral processes in the brain have a bearing on several disturbances of mental health and highlight novel opportunities of therapeutic intervention.


38075261|t|Gut-brain axis: gut dysbiosis and psychiatric disorders in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease.
38075261|w|Charlotte R Denman; Sang Myun Park; Junghyun Jo
38075261|j|Frontiers in neuroscience
38075261|y|2023
38075261|a|Gut dysbiosis and psychiatric symptoms are common early manifestations of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). These diseases, characterised by progressive neuron loss and pathological protein accumulation, impose debilitating effects on patients. Recently, these pathological proteins have been linked with gut dysbiosis and psychiatric disorders. The gut-brain axis links the enteric and central nervous systems, acting as a bidirectional communication pathway to influence brain function and behavior. The relationship triad between gut dysbiosis, psychiatric disorders, and neurodegeneration has been investigated in pairs; however, evidence suggests that they are all interrelated and a deeper understanding is required to unravel the nuances of neurodegenerative diseases. Therefore, this review aims to summarise the current literature on the roles of gut dysbiosis and psychiatric disorders in pathological protein-related neurodegenerative diseases. We discussed how changes in the gut environment can influence the development of psychiatric symptoms and the progression of neurodegeneration and how these features overlap in AD and PD. Moreover, research on the interplay between gut dysbiosis, psychiatric disorders, and neurodegeneration remains in its early phase. In this review, we highlighted potential therapeutic approaches aimed at mitigating gastrointestinal problems and psychiatric disorders to alter the rate of neurodegeneration. Further research to assess the molecular mechanisms underlying AD and PD pathogenesis remains crucial for developing more effective treatments and achieving earlier diagnoses. Moreover, exploring non-invasive, early preventive measures and interventions is a relatively unexplored but important avenue of research in neurodegenerative diseases.


38417224|t|Integrated multi-omics analysis reveals gut microbiota dysbiosis and systemic disturbance in major depressive disorder.
38417224|w|Zuoquan Xie; Jingjing Huang; Guangqiang Sun; Shen He; Zhiyu Luo; Linna Zhang; Liang Li; Min Yao; Chen Du; Wenjuan Yu; Yuan Feng; Dabing Yang; Jing Zhang; Changrong Ge; Huafang Li; Meiyu Geng
38417224|j|Psychiatry research
38417224|y|2024
38417224|a|Major depressive disorder (MDD) involves systemic changes in peripheral blood and gut microbiota, but the current understanding is incomplete. Herein, we conducted a multi-omics analysis of fecal and blood samples obtained from an observational cohort including MDD patients (n = 99) and healthy control (HC, n = 50). 16S rRNA sequencing of gut microbiota showed structural alterations in MDD, as characterized by increased Enterococcus. Metagenomics sequencing of gut microbiota showed substantial functional alterations including upregulation in the superpathway of the glyoxylate cycle and fatty acid degradation and downregulation in various metabolic pathways in MDD. Plasma metabolomics revealed decreased amino acids and bile acids, together with increased sphingolipids and cholesterol esters in MDD. Notably, metabolites involved in arginine and proline metabolism were decreased while sphingolipid metabolic pathway were increased. Mass cytometry analysis of blood immune cell subtypes showed rises in proinflammatory immune subsets and declines in anti-inflammatory immune subsets in MDD. Furthermore, our findings revealed disease severity-related factors of MDD. Interestingly, we classified MDD into two immune subtypes that were highly correlated with disease relapse. Moreover, we established discriminative signatures that differentiate MDD from HC. These findings contribute to a comprehensive understanding of the MDD pathogenesis and provide valuable resources for the discovery of biomarkers.


36284437|t|Gut bacterial profiles in Parkinson's disease: A systematic review.
36284437|w|Zhe Li; Hongfeng Liang; Yingyu Hu; Lin Lu; Chunye Zheng; Yuzhen Fan; Bin Wu; Tao Zou; Xiaodong Luo; Xinchun Zhang; Yan Zeng; Ziyan Liu; Zhicheng Zhou; Zhenyu Yue; Yi Ren; Zhuo Li; Qiaozhen Su; Pingyi Xu
36284437|j|CNS neuroscience & therapeutics
36284437|y|2023
36284437|a|Recent advances have highlighted the relationships between gut dysbiosis and Parkinson's disease (PD). Microbiota transplantation from PD patients to mice can induce increased alpha-synuclein-mediated motor deficits. Human studies have identified differences in the gut microbiota of PD patients compared to healthy controls. We undertook a systematic review to evaluate the available evidence for the involvement of gut bacteria in the etiology of PD. The PubMed databank, the China National Knowledge Infrastructure databank, and Wanfang Data were searched from inception until June 2021 to identify human case-control studies that investigated relationships between PD and microbiota quantified from feces. We evaluated the resulting studies focusing on bacterial taxa that were different between PD patients and healthy controls. Twenty-six studies were found in which 53 microbial families and 98 genera exhibited differences between patients with PD and healthy controls. The genera identified by more than two studies as increased in PD were Bifidobacterium, Alistipes, Christensenella, Enterococcus, Oscillospira, Bilophila, Desulfovibrio, Escherichia/Shigella, and Akkermansia, while Prevotella, Blautia, Faecalibacterium, Fusicatenibacter, and Haemophilus had three or more reports of being lower in PD patients. More than one report demonstrated that Bacteroides, Odoribacter, Parabacteroides, Butyricicoccus, Butyrivibrio, Clostridium, Coprococcus, Lachnospira, Lactobacillus, Megasphaera, Phascolarctobacterium, Roseburia, Ruminococcus, Streptococcus, and Klebsiella were altered in both directions. Our review shows that the involvement of the gut microbiome in the etiology of PD may involve alterations of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs)-producing bacteria and an increase in putative gut pathobionts. SCFAs-producing bacteria may vary above or below an "optimal range," causing imbalances. Considering that Bifidobacterium, Lactobacillus, and Akkermansia are beneficial for human health, increased Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus in the PD gut microbiome may be associated with PD medications, especially COMT inhibitors, while a high level of Akkermansia may be associated with aging.


33508544|t|Transcriptional markers of excitation-inhibition balance in germ-free mice show region-specific dysregulation and rescue after bacterial colonization.
33508544|w|Vivek Philip; Dwight F Newton; Hyunjung Oh; Stephen M Collins; Premysl Bercik; Etienne Sibille
33508544|j|Journal of psychiatric research
33508544|y|2021
33508544|a|Studies of germ-free (GF) mice demonstrate that gut microbiota can influence behaviour by modulating neurochemical pathways in the brain, and that bacterial colonization normalizes behavioural deficits in GF-mice. Since disrupted GABAergic and glutamatergic signaling are reported in mood disorders, this study investigated the effect of gut microbiota manipulations on EIB-relevant gene expression in the brain. GF Swiss-Webster mice were colonized with E. coli JM83, complex microbiota (specific-pathogen-free; SPF), or no microbiota, and compared with controls (n = 6/group). 21 synaptic genes representing GABAergic, glutamatergic, BDNF, and astrocytic functions were measured in the hippocampus, amygdala, and prefrontal cortex using quantitative PCR. Gene co-expression analysis was used to identify gene modules related to colonization status, and compared by permutation analysis. Gene expression profiles were compared to existing post-mortem cohorts of depressed subjects (n = 28 cases vs 28 controls). Region-specific alterations in gene expression were observed in GF-mice compared to controls. 58% of all genes (14/24) altered in GF-mice were normalized following SPF-colonization. GF-mice displayed disorganization of gene co-expression networks in all three brain regions (hippocampus, p = 0.0003; amygdala, p = 0.0012; mPFC, p = 0.0069), which was restored by SPF colonization in hippocampus (p v.s. GF = 0.0003, p v.s. control = 0.60). The hippocampal gene expression profile in GF-mice was significantly correlated with that in human depression (ρ = 0.51, p = 0.027), and this correlation was not observed after colonization. Together, we show that the absence of gut microbiota disrupts the expression of EIB-relevant genes in mice, and colonization restores EIB-relevant expression, in ways that are relevant to human depression.


36017855|t|Gut-Brain Axis and Neurological Disorders-How Microbiomes Affect our Mental Health.
36017855|w|Nirav Yogesh Bhatia; Manjiri Prabhakar Jalgaonkar; Anuja Balu Hargude; Atul P Sherje; Manisha Jignesh Oza; Gaurav Mahesh Doshi
36017855|j|CNS & neurological disorders drug targets
36017855|y|2023
36017855|a|The gut microbiota is an essential part of the gastrointestinal tract and recent research, including clinical and preclinical studies, shed light on the interaction between the gut and the brain. A rising amount of evidence strongly proves the involvement of gut microbes in brain function and their contribution in altering behavior, mood, and ultimately in the pathogenesis of certain neurological conditions. The gut microbiota produces and modulates neurotransmitters such as GABA, serotonin, dopamine, glutamate, etc. Furthermore, there is a presence of a biological link between the microbiota, immune signaling, and CNS suggesting that microbial metabolites could regulate both neurological and immunological activities in the brain. Thus, this review focuses on the bidirectional communication between the gut and brain, its impact and role in the modulation of various neurological disorders, such as schizophrenia, depression, anxiety, etc., and attempts to explore the underlying mechanism for the same. The article also discusses studies involving germ-free mice, studies on the effects of faeces transfer of microbiota, and research involving gut microbiota composition in animal models. The effects of probiotics and prebiotics on neurological disorders are also discussed, along with the clinical studies for each of them. In a nutshell, extensive studies are required to explore this bidirectional communication between the gut and brain, which might help researchers develop new therapeutic targets in treating neurological disorders and increase our understanding of the gut-brain axis.


37692658|t|The Benefits of Prebiotics and Probiotics on Mental Health.
37692658|w|Karlyle G Bistas; Jean Paul Tabet
37692658|j|Cureus
37692658|y|2023
37692658|a|In individuals with depression and anxiety, the composition or alteration of their gut microbiota can significantly affect their psychological symptoms. Articles for this study were selected using PubMed and NCBI (National Center for Biotechnology Information) with the following search terms: "gut microbiota," "depression," "anxiety," "probiotics," and "prebiotics." These studies evaluated the composition of the gut microbiota and the decrease in symptoms of depression and anxiety due to treatment with probiotics and prebiotics. Only papers published after 2015 were included. There was a significant relationship between the composition and alteration of the gut microbiota and the presence or variation of symptoms of depression and anxiety. Treatment with probiotics or prebiotics improved the symptoms of these mental health conditions. This literature review examines how different prebiotics and probiotics affect mental health and how altering individuals' gut microbiota correlates with depression and anxiety. Treatment with probiotics or prebiotics may decrease the severity of these mental disorders by altering the gut microbiota.


31440136|t|Altered Gut Microbiome in Parkinson's Disease and the Influence of Lipopolysaccharide in a Human α-Synuclein Over-Expressing Mouse Model.
31440136|w|Anastazja M Gorecki; Leah Preskey; Megan C Bakeberg; Jade E Kenna; Christi Gildenhuys; Gabriella MacDougall; Sarah A Dunlop; Frank L Mastaglia; P Anthony Akkari; Frank Koengten; Ryan S Anderton
31440136|j|Frontiers in neuroscience
31440136|y|2019
31440136|a|The interaction between the gut microbiota and alpha-synuclein (αSyn) aggregation in Parkinson's disease (PD) is receiving increasing attention. The objective of this study was to investigate gut microbiota, and effects of an inflammatory lipopolysaccharide (LPS) trigger in a human αSyn over-expressing mouse model of PD (Thy1-αSyn). Stool samples from patients with confirmed PD and Thy1-αSyn mice were analyzed using 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing. Compared to healthy controls, the relative abundance of mucin-degrading Verrucomicrobiae and LPS-producing Gammaproteobacteria were greater in PD patients. In mice, the abundance of Gammaproteobacteria was negligible in both Thy1-αSyn and wild-type (WT) animals, while Verrucomicrobiae were reduced in Thy1-αSyn mice. The effect of LPS on intestinal barrier function was investigated <i>in vitro</i> using intestinal epithelial (IEC-6) cells, and <i>in vivo</i> via administration of LPS in drinking water to Thy1-αSyn mice. Acute exposure to LPS <i>in vitro</i> resulted in a reduction and altered distribution of the tight junction markers ZO-1 and e-Cadherin around the cell membrane in IEC-6 cells, as shown by immunohistochemistry. LPS administration in Thy1-αSyn mice resulted in the emergence of early motor manifestations at 10 weeks, compared to untreated mice who were still asymptomatic at this age. This study reaffirms that an altered microbiome exists in patients with PD, and supports the notion of a proinflammatory gut microbiome environment as a trigger for PD pathogenesis.


36710917|t|Metagenomic data reveals microbiome characteristics of culture-negative brain abscess samples.
36710917|w|Daisy Vanitha John; Meera Purushottam
36710917|j|Data in brief
36710917|y|2023
36710917|a|A brain abscess is a focal collection of pus in the brain parenchyma surrounded by a well-vascularized collagenous capsule in response to an infection. The microbiome of brain abscesses has been shown to be polymicrobial, dominated by uncultivable and anaerobic organisms of odontogenic origin. The data provided in this article includes the sequences of bacterial 16S rRNA gene from three culture-negative brain abscess samples suspected to have poly-microbial aetiology based on Sanger sequencing. DNA was extracted from brain abscess samples, and targeted-metagenomics sequencing was done by amplifying the full-length bacterial 16S rRNA followed by a nested PCR for V3-V4 regions using universal and specific primers. The barcoded amplicons were sequenced on Illumina MiSeq V2 instrument to generate 0.5M, 250bp paired-end reads/sample. The total sequencing reads were 455966, 345746, and 438658 for samples P32, P49, and P8, respectively. Bioinformatics tools such as FLASH, VSEARCH, and QIIME1 were used to process the reads generated for Operational Taxonomic Unit analysis (OTU). Bacterial species belonging to phyla Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and Fusobacteria were abundant in samples P49 and P8, which are mainly anaerobic and microaerophilic bacteria. These are typical of the human oral/gut microbiota and are implicated in brain abscess formation. Sample P32 showed the abundance of bacterial species belonging to phyla Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria, which are commonly found in the environment. Raw data files are available at the Sequence Read Archive (SRA), National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), and data information can be found at the BioProject, PRJNA785100 under the accession numbers SRX13271109, SRX13271110, SRX13295897. The data shows the microbiome constitution, including several anaerobic and unculturable bacterial species from culture-negative brain abscess samples. This dataset will be useful for future research on comparative genomics and management of patients with culture-negative brain abscesses.


34946184|t|Gut Bacteria and Neuropsychiatric Disorders.
34946184|w|Leon M T Dicks; Diron Hurn; Demi Hermanus
34946184|j|Microorganisms
34946184|y|2021
34946184|a|Bacteria in the gut microbiome plays an intrinsic part in immune activation, intestinal permeability, enteric reflex, and entero-endocrine signaling. Apart from physiological and structural changes brought about by gut bacteria on entero-epithelial cells and mucus layers, a vast number of signals generated in the gastro-intestinal tract (GIT) reaches the brain via the vagus nerve. Research on the gut-brain axis (GBA) has mostly been devoted to digestive functions and satiety. Less papers have been published on the role gut microbiota play in mood, cognitive behavior and neuropsychiatric disorders such as autism, depression and schizophrenia. Whether we will be able to fully decipher the connection between gut microbiota and mental health is debatable, especially since the gut microbiome is diverse, everchanging and highly responsive to external stimuli. Nevertheless, the more we discover about the gut microbiome and the more we learn about the GBA, the greater the chance of developing novel therapeutics, probiotics and psychobiotics to treat gastro-intestinal disorders such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), but also improve cognitive functions and prevent or treat mental disorders. In this review we focus on the influence gut bacteria and their metabolites have on neuropsychiatric disorders.


37399128|t|Gut microbiome characteristics in subjective cognitive decline, mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
37399128|w|Guanlin Chen; Xiaoqi Zhou; Yikang Zhu; Wendian Shi; Li Kong
37399128|j|European journal of neurology
37399128|y|2023
37399128|a|The gut microbiome has been reported to be closely related to Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression. Here, a comprehensive meta-analysis of gut microbial characteristics in AD, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and subjective cognitive decline (SCD) was performed to compare gut microbial alterations at each stage. A total of 10 databases (CNKI, WanFang, VIP, SinoMed, WOS, PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, PsycINFO and Void) were searched and 34 case-control studies were included. α and β diversity and the relative abundance of gut microbiota were analysed as outcome indices. Data analysis was performed using Review Manager (5.4.1) and R. Chao1 and Shannon index levels in AD were significantly lower compared with healthy controls (HCs), and the Chao1 index was significantly lower in MCI compared with HCs. There was a significant difference in β diversity of gut microbiomes in patients (SCD, MCI, AD) compared with HCs. The relative abundance of Firmicutes at the phylum level was significantly lower in patients with AD and MCI than HCs. However, the relative abundance of Bacteroidetes at the phylum level was significantly higher in patients with MCI than HCs. There was an increasing trend for Enterobacteriaceae and a decreasing trend for Ruminococcaceae, Lachnospiraceae and Lactobacillus during AD; Lactobacillus showed a decreasing trend early in SCD. Our results indicated that there were gut microbiological abnormalities in AD, even as early as the SCD stage. The dynamic, consistent changes in gut microbes with the disease process showed that they might serve as potential biomarkers for early identification and diagnosis of AD.


30705252|t|Key role of gut microbiota in anhedonia-like phenotype in rodents with neuropathic pain.
30705252|w|Chun Yang; Xi Fang; Gaofeng Zhan; Niannian Huang; Shan Li; Jiangjiang Bi; Riyue Jiang; Ling Yang; Liying Miao; Bin Zhu; Ailin Luo; Kenji Hashimoto
30705252|j|Translational psychiatry
30705252|y|2019
30705252|a|Patients with chronic neuropathic pain frequently suffer from symptoms of anhedonia, which is a core symptom of depression. Accumulating studies suggest that gut microbiota may play a role in depression via gut-microbiota-brain axis. However, it is unknown whether gut microbiota plays a role in neuropathic pain-associated anhedonia. Here, we used a rat model of spared nerve injury (SNI). Hierarchical cluster analysis of sucrose preference test (SPT) results was used to classify the SNI rats with or without anhedonia-like phenotype. The 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing analysis showed abnormal composition of gut microbiota in the anhedonia susceptible compared to sham-operated rats and resilient rats. Furthermore, antibiotics-treated mice showed pain as well as depression-like and anhedonia-like phenotypes, suggesting a role of gut microbiota in these abnormal behaviors. Transplantation of fecal microbiota from anhedonia susceptible rats into antibiotics-treated pseudo-germ-free mice significantly exaggerated pain and depression-like phenotypes, including anhedonia. In contrast, transplantation of fecal microbiota from resilient rats into antibiotics-treated pseudo-germ-free mice significantly improved pain and depression-like phenotypes, including anhedonia. In conclusion, this study suggests that abnormal composition of gut microbiota may contribute to anhedonia susceptibility post SNI surgery, and that gut microbiota also plays a role in the pain as well as depression-like phenotypes. Interestingly, fecal microbiota transplantation from SNI rats with or without anhedonia can alter pain, depression-like and anhedonia-like phenotypes in the pseudo-germ-free mice. Therefore, it is likely that gut microbiota plays a key role in the pain as well as depression-like phenotypes including anhedonia in rodents with neuropathic pain.


36984872|t|A Comprehensive NMR Analysis of Serum and Fecal Metabolites in Familial Dysautonomia Patients Reveals Significant Metabolic Perturbations.
36984872|w|Stephanann M Costello; Alexandra M Cheney; Annie Waldum; Brian Tripet; Maria Cotrina-Vidal; Horacio Kaufmann; Lucy Norcliffe-Kaufmann; Frances Lefcort; Valérie Copié
36984872|j|Metabolites
36984872|y|2023
36984872|a|Central metabolism has a profound impact on the clinical phenotypes and penetrance of neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's (PD) diseases, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). In contrast to the multifactorial origin of these neurological diseases, neurodevelopmental impairment and neurodegeneration in Familial Dysautonomia (FD) results from a single point mutation in the <i>ELP1</i> gene. FD patients represent a well-defined population who can help us better understand the cellular networks underlying neurodegeneration, and how disease traits are affected by metabolic dysfunction, which in turn may contribute to dysregulation of the gut-brain axis of FD. Here, <sup>1</sup>H NMR spectroscopy was employed to characterize the serum and fecal metabolomes of FD patients, and to assess similarities and differences in the polar metabolite profiles between FD patients and healthy relative controls. Findings from this work revealed noteworthy metabolic alterations reflected in energy (ATP) production, mitochondrial function, amino acid and nucleotide catabolism, neurosignaling molecules, and gut-microbial metabolism. These results provide further evidence for a close interconnection between metabolism, neurodegeneration, and gut microbiome dysbiosis in FD, and create an opportunity to explore whether metabolic interventions targeting the gut-brain-metabolism axis of FD could be used to redress or slow down the progressive neurodegeneration observed in FD patients.


36815026|t|Effects of a high-prebiotic diet versus probiotic supplements versus synbiotics on adult mental health: The "Gut Feelings" randomised controlled trial.
36815026|w|Tanya M Freijy; Lachlan Cribb; Georgina Oliver; Najwa-Joelle Metri; Rachelle S Opie; Felice N Jacka; Jason A Hawrelak; Julia J Rucklidge; Chee H Ng; Jerome Sarris
36815026|j|Frontiers in neuroscience
36815026|y|2022
36815026|a|Preliminary evidence supports the use of dietary interventions and gut microbiota-targeted interventions such as probiotic or prebiotic supplementation for improving mental health. We report on the first randomised controlled trial (RCT) to examine the effects of a high-prebiotic dietary intervention and probiotic supplements on mental health. "Gut Feelings" was an 8-week, 2 × 2 factorial RCT of 119 adults with moderate psychological distress and low prebiotic food intake. Treatment arms: (1) probiotic supplement and diet-as-usual (probiotic group); (2) high-prebiotic diet and placebo supplement (prebiotic diet group); (3) probiotic supplement and high-prebiotic diet (synbiotic group); and (4) placebo supplement and diet-as-usual (placebo group). The primary outcome was assessment of total mood disturbance (TMD; Profile of Mood States Short Form) from baseline to 8 weeks. Secondary outcomes included anxiety, depression, stress, sleep, and wellbeing measures. A modified intention-to-treat analysis using linear mixed effects models revealed that the prebiotic diet reduced TMD relative to placebo at 8 weeks [Cohen's <i>d</i> = -0.60, 95% confidence interval (CI) = -1.18, -0.03; <i>p</i> = 0.039]. There was no evidence of symptom improvement from the probiotic (<i>d</i> = -0.19, 95% CI = -0.75, 0.38; <i>p</i> = 0.51) or synbiotic treatments (<i>d</i> = -0.03, 95% CI = -0.59, 0.53; <i>p</i> = 0.92). Improved anxiety, stress, and sleep were noted in response to the prebiotic diet while the probiotic tentatively improved wellbeing, relative to placebo. No benefit was found in response to the synbiotic intervention. All treatments were well tolerated with few adverse events. A high-prebiotic dietary intervention may improve mood, anxiety, stress, and sleep in adults with moderate psychological distress and low prebiotic intake. A synbiotic combination of high-prebiotic diet and probiotic supplement does not appear to have a beneficial effect on mental health outcomes, though further evidence is required. Results are limited by the relatively small sample size. https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=372753, identifier ACTRN12617000795392.


31890161|t|Microbiome changes: an indicator of Parkinson's disease?
31890161|w|Caroline Haikal; Qian-Qian Chen; Jia-Yi Li
31890161|j|Translational neurodegeneration
31890161|y|2019
31890161|a|Parkinson's disease is characterized by dopaminergic neuron loss and intracellular inclusions composed mainly of alpha synuclein (α-syn), but the mechanism of pathogenesis is still obscure. In recent years, more attention has been given to the gut as a key player in the initiation and progression of PD pathology. Several studies characterizing changes in the microbiome, particularly the gut microbiome, have been conducted. Although many studies found a decrease in the bacterial family Prevotellaceae and in butyrate-producing bacterial genera such as Roseburia and Faecalibacteria, and an increase in the genera Akkermansia many of the studies reported contradictory findings. In this review, we highlight the findings from the different studies and reflect on the future of microbiome studies in PD research.


26633823|t|Prevention of Diet-Induced Obesity Effects on Body Weight and Gut Microbiota in Mice Treated Chronically with Δ9-Tetrahydrocannabinol.
26633823|w|Nina L Cluny; Catherine M Keenan; Raylene A Reimer; Bernard Le Foll; Keith A Sharkey
26633823|j|PloS one
26633823|y|2015
26633823|a|Acute administration of cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonists, or the ingestion of cannabis, induces short-term hyperphagia. However, the incidence of obesity is lower in frequent cannabis users compared to non-users. Gut microbiota affects host metabolism and altered microbial profiles are observed in obese states. Gut microbiota modifies adipogenesis through actions on the endocannabinoid system. This study investigated the effect of chronic THC administration on body weight and gut microbiota in diet-induced obese (DIO) and lean mice. Adult male DIO and lean mice were treated daily with vehicle or THC (2mg/kg for 3 weeks and 4 mg/kg for 1 additional week). Body weight, fat mass, energy intake, locomotor activity, whole gut transit and gut microbiota were measured longitudinally. THC reduced weight gain, fat mass gain and energy intake in DIO but not lean mice. DIO-induced changes in select gut microbiota were prevented in mice chronically administered THC. THC had no effect on locomotor activity or whole gut transit in either lean or DIO mice. Chronic THC treatment reduced energy intake and prevented high fat diet-induced increases in body weight and adiposity; effects that were unlikely to be a result of sedation or altered gastrointestinal transit. Changes in gut microbiota potentially contribute to chronic THC-induced actions on body weight in obesity.


37794974|t|A personalized diet intervention improves depression symptoms and changes microbiota and metabolite profiles among community-dwelling older adults.
37794974|w|Faiga Magzal; Silvia Turroni; Marco Fabbrini; Monica Barone; Adi Vitman Schorr; Ariella Ofran; Snait Tamir
37794974|j|Frontiers in nutrition
37794974|y|2023
37794974|a|The impact of diet on mental well-being and gut microorganisms in humans is well recognized. However, research on the connections between food nutrients, gut microbiota, and mental health remains limited. To address this, the present study aimed to assess the effects of a personalized diet, based on individual needs and aligned with the Mediterranean diet principles, on depression symptoms, quality of life, nutritional intake, and gut microbiota changes among older adults living in the community. The intervention involved regular visits from a registered dietitian, who provided tailored dietary recommendations. During the 6-month study, participants completed questionnaires to evaluate their depression levels, quality of life, and dietary habits. Additionally, they provided stool samples for analysis of gut microbiota and metabolites. The results demonstrated that the personalized dietary intervention reduced depression symptoms and improved the quality of life among older adults. Furthermore, significant changes in the intake of certain nutrients, such as folate, lutein, zeaxanthin, EPA, and DHA, were observed following the intervention. Moreover, the intervention was associated with increased diversity in the gut microbiome and reduced total short-chain fatty acids, the main metabolites produced by gut microorganisms. The study also revealed correlations between food nutrients, gut microbiota, and mental health parameters. In conclusion, this research highlights the potential advantages of personalized dietary interventions in managing depression and enhancing overall well-being among older populations. It also sheds light on the role of gut microbiota and its metabolites in these effects. The findings offer valuable insights into the significance of nutrition and gut health for mental well-being in older adults.


33139656|t|Gut Biofactory-Neurocompetent Metabolites within the Gastrointestinal Tract. A Scoping Review.
33139656|w|Karolina Skonieczna-Żydecka; Karolina Jakubczyk; Dominika Maciejewska-Markiewicz; Katarzyna Janda; Karolina Kaźmierczak-Siedlecka; Mariusz Kaczmarczyk; Igor Łoniewski; Wojciech Marlicz
33139656|j|Nutrients
33139656|y|2020
33139656|a|The gut microbiota have gained much scientific attention recently. Apart from unravelling the taxonomic data, we should understand how the altered microbiota structure corresponds to functions of this complex ecosystem. The metabolites of intestinal microorganisms, especially bacteria, exert pleiotropic effects on the human organism and contribute to the host systemic balance. These molecules play key roles in regulating immune and metabolic processes. A subset of them affect the gut brain axis signaling and balance the mental wellbeing. Neurotransmitters, short chain fatty acids, tryptophan catabolites, bile acids and phosphatidylcholine, choline, serotonin, and <i>L</i>-carnitine metabolites possess high neuroactive potential. A scoping literature search in PubMed/Embase was conducted up until 20 June 2020, using three major search terms "microbiota metabolites" AND "gut brain axis" AND "mental health". This review aimed to enhance our knowledge regarding the gut microbiota functional capacity, and support current and future attempts to create new compounds for future clinical interventions.


37774944|t|Gut-muscle-brain axis: Molecular mechanisms in neurodegenerative disorders and potential therapeutic efficacy of probiotic supplementation coupled with exercise.
37774944|w|Ilaria Morella; Massimo Negro; Maurizia Dossena; Riccardo Brambilla; Giuseppe D'Antona
37774944|j|Neuropharmacology
37774944|y|2023
37774944|a|Increased longevity is often associated with age-related conditions. The most common neurodegenerative disorders in the older population are Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), associated with progressive neuronal loss leading to functional and cognitive impairments. Although symptomatic treatments are available, there is currently no cure for these conditions. Gut dysbiosis has been involved in the pathogenesis of AD and PD, thus interventions targeting the "gut-brain axis" could potentially prevent or delay these pathologies. Recent evidence suggests that the skeletal muscle and the gut microbiota can affect each other via the "gut-muscle axis". Importantly, cognitive functions in AD and PD patients significantly benefit from physical activity. In this review, we aim to provide a comprehensive picture of the crosstalk between the brain, the skeletal muscle and the gut microbiota, introducing the concept of "gut-muscle-brain axis". Moreover, we discuss human and animal studies exploring the modulatory role of exercise and probiotics on cognition in AD and PD. Collectively, the findings presented here support the potential benefits of physical activity and probiotic supplementation in AD and PD. Further studies will be needed to develop targeted and multimodal strategies, including lifestyle changes, to prevent or delay the course of these pathologies.


35513230|t|Evidence for immune system alterations in peripheral biological fluids in Parkinson's disease.
35513230|w|Michael Bartl; Mary Xylaki; Mathias Bähr; Sandrina Weber; Claudia Trenkwalder; Brit Mollenhauer
35513230|j|Neurobiology of disease
35513230|y|2022
35513230|a|Immune-related alterations in Parkinson's disease (PD) can be monitored by assessing peripheral biological fluids that show that specific inflammatory pathways contribute to a chronic pro-inflammatory status. This pro-inflammatory activity is hypothesized to be already present in the prodromal stages of PD. These pathways maintain and reinforce chronic neurodegeneration by stimulating cell activation and proliferation what triggers the pro-inflammatory status as well. The gut microbiome possibly contributes to inflammatory pathways and shows specific differences in fecal samples from PD compared to healthy controls. In PD, Bacteroides abundance correlates with inflammatory markers in blood and motor impairment. Increased pro-inflammatory and decreased anti-inflammatory bacterial colonization can lead to changes in the metabolic pathways of amino acids, inducing increased membrane permeability, described as a leaky gut, enabling advanced contact between immune cells and gut microbiome and potentially a spreading of neuroinflammation through the body via the blood. Increased cytokine blood levels in PD are correlated with disease severity, motor symptoms, and clinical phenotypes. α-synuclein is a central player in PD-associated inflammation, inducing specific T-cell activity and triggering microglial activation in the central nervous system (CNS). Misfolded α-synuclein propagation possibly results in the spreading of aggregated α-synuclein from neuron to neuron leading to a sustained neuroinflammation. This is supported by age-dependent defects of protein uptake in microglia and monocytes, so-called "inflammaging", including α-synuclein oligomers, as the key pathological protein in PD. Genetic risk markers and inherited forms of PD are also associated with inflammation, which is highly relevant for potential therapeutical targets. The documented associations of inflammatory markers and clinical phenotypes indicate a pro-inflammatory concept of specific PD pathophysiology here. An in-depth understanding of inflammatory mechanisms in PD from bottom (gut) to top (CNS) and vice versa is needed to design novel immunomodulatory approaches to delay or even stop PD. Future studies focusing on structured protocols in large patient cohorts with appropriate control groups and comparative analysis among studies will aid the discovery of novel candidate biomarkers.


38166669|t|Effectiveness of a socioecological model-guided, smart device-based, self-management-oriented lifestyle intervention in community residents: protocol for a cluster-randomized controlled trial.
38166669|w|Shujuan Yang; Bin Yu; Kai Liao; Xu Qiao; Yunzhe Fan; Ming Li; Yuekong Hu; Jiayan Chen; Tingting Ye; Changwei Cai; Chunlan Ma; Tong Pang; Zixing Huang; Peng Jia; Jan D Reinhardt; Qingyu Dou
38166669|j|BMC public health
38166669|y|2024
38166669|a|Healthy lifestyles are crucial for preventing chronic diseases. Nonetheless, approximately 90% of Chinese community residents regularly engage in at least one unhealthy lifestyle. Mobile smart devices-based health interventions (mHealth) that incorporate theoretical frameworks regarding behavioral change in interaction with the environment may provide an appealing and cost-effective approach for promoting sustainable adaptations of healthier lifestyles. We designed a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate the effectiveness of a socioecological model-guided, smart device-based, and self-management-oriented lifestyles (3SLIFE) intervention, to promote healthy lifestyles among Chinese community residents. This two-arm, parallel, cluster-RCT with a 6-month intervention and 6-month follow-up period foresees to randomize a total of 20 communities/villages from 4 townships in a 1:1 ratio to either intervention or control. Within these communities, a total of at least 256 community residents will be enrolled. The experimental group will receive a multi-level intervention based on the socioecological model supplemented with a multi-dimensional empowerment approach. The control group will receive information only. The primary outcome is the reduction of modifiable unhealthy lifestyles at six months, including smoking, excess alcohol consumption, physical inactivity, unbalanced diet, and overweight/obesity. A reduction by one unhealthy behavior measured with the Healthy Lifestyle Index Score (HLIS) will be considered favorable. Secondary outcomes include reduction of specific unhealthy lifestyles at 3 months, 9 months, and 12 months, and mental health outcomes such as depression measured with PHQ-9, social outcomes such as social support measured with the modified Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support, clinical outcomes such as obesity, and biomedical outcomes such as the development of gut microbiota. Data will be analyzed with mixed effects generalized linear models with family and link function determined by outcome distribution and accounting for clustering of participants in communities. This study will provide evidence concerning the effect of a mHealth intervention that incorporates a behavioral change theoretical framework on cultivating and maintaining healthy lifestyles in community residents. The study will provide insights into research on and application of similar mHealth intervention strategies to promote healthy lifestyles in community populations and settings. ChiCTR2300070575. Date of registration: April 17, 2023. https://www.chictr.org.cn/index.aspx .


28121994|t|Diet and ADHD, Reviewing the Evidence: A Systematic Review of Meta-Analyses of Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Trials Evaluating the Efficacy of Diet Interventions on the Behavior of Children with ADHD.
28121994|w|Lidy M Pelsser; Klaas Frankena; Jan Toorman; Rob Rodrigues Pereira
28121994|j|PloS one
28121994|y|2017
28121994|a|Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a debilitating mental health problem hampering the child's development. The underlying causes include both genetic and environmental factors and may differ between individuals. The efficacy of diet treatments in ADHD was recently evaluated in three reviews, reporting divergent and confusing conclusions based on heterogeneous studies and subjects. To address this inconsistency we conducted a systematic review of meta-analyses of double-blind placebo-controlled trials evaluating the effect of diet interventions (elimination and supplementation) on ADHD. Our literature search resulted in 14 meta-analyses, six of which confined to double-blind placebo-controlled trials applying homogeneous diet interventions, i.e. artificial food color (AFC) elimination, a few-foods diet (FFD) and poly-unsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) supplementation. Effect sizes (ES) and Confidence intervals (CI) of study outcomes were depicted in a forest plot. I2 was calculated to assess heterogeneity if necessary and additional random effects subgroup meta-regression was conducted if substantial heterogeneity was present. The AFC ESs were 0.44 (95% CI: 0.16-0.72, I2 = 11%) and 0.21 (95% CI: -0.02-0.43, I2 = 68%) [parent ratings], 0.08 (95% CI: -0.07-0.24, I2 = 0%) [teacher ratings] and 0.11 (95% CI: -0.13-0.34, I2 = 12%) [observer ratings]. The FFD ESs were 0.80 (95% CI: 0.41-1.19, I2 = 61%) [parent ratings] and 0.51 (95% CI: -0.02-1.04, I2 = 72%) [other ratings], while the PUFA ESs were 0.17 (95% CI: -0.03-0.38, I2 = 38%) [parent ratings], -0.05 (95% CI: -0.27-0.18, I2 = 0%) [teacher ratings] and 0.16 (95% CI: 0.01-0.31, I2 = 0%) [parent and teacher ratings]. Three meta-analyses (two FFD and one AFC) resulted in high I2 without presenting subgroup results. The FFD meta-analyses provided sufficient data to perform subgroup analyses on intervention type, resulting in a decrease of heterogeneity to 0% (diet design) and 37.8% (challenge design). Considering the small average ESs PUFA supplementation is unlikely to provide a tangible contribution to ADHD treatment, while further research is required for AFC elimination before advising this intervention as ADHD treatment. The average FFD ES is substantial, offering treatment opportunities in subgroups of children with ADHD not responding to or too young for medication. Further FFD research should focus on establishing the underlying mechanisms of food (e.g. incrimination of gut microbiota) to simplify the FFD approach in children with ADHD.


31784958|t|Neuroimmune Advance in Depressive Disorder.
31784958|w|Guoqing Zhao; Xiaohua Liu
31784958|j|Advances in experimental medicine and biology
31784958|y|2019
31784958|a|Major depressive disorder (MDD) or depression is one of the most highly prevalent, chronic, and recurrent disorders, which is associated with a high burden of disease and substantial impairment in social functions. Both immune molecules and cells have been implicated in the pathophysiology and maintenance of MDD. Findings in animals and MDD patients have suggested that both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines are activated in the neuroinflammation which contribute to behavioral symptoms and changes in the course of depression. There is a growing body of evidence to support that neuroinflammation is a mediator for the communication among stress response, neuroendocrine, neurotransmission, neurogenesis, and gut microbiota. These communications have been known as risk factors in the pathogenesis of MDD. In the meantime, accumulating evidence has suggested that some interventions targeting the inflammatory processes may play an important role in the treatment of MDD.


37130861|t|Gut microbiome dysbiosis across early Parkinson's disease, REM sleep behavior disorder and their first-degree relatives.
37130861|w|Bei Huang; Steven W H Chau; Yaping Liu; Joey W Y Chan; Jing Wang; Suk Ling Ma; Jihui Zhang; Paul K S Chan; Yun Kit Yeoh; Zigui Chen; Li Zhou; Sunny Hei Wong; Vincent C T Mok; Ka Fai To; Hei Ming Lai; Simon Ng; Claudia Trenkwalder; Francis K L Chan; Yun Kwok Wing
37130861|j|Nature communications
37130861|y|2023
37130861|a|The microbiota-gut-brain axis has been suggested to play an important role in Parkinson's disease (PD). Here we performed a cross-sectional study to profile gut microbiota across early PD, REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD), first-degree relatives of RBD (RBD-FDR), and healthy controls, which could reflect the gut-brain staging model of PD. We show gut microbiota compositions are significantly altered in early PD and RBD compared with control and RBD-FDR. Depletion of butyrate-producing bacteria and enrichment of pro-inflammatory Collinsella have already emerged in RBD and RBD-FDR after controlling potential confounders including antidepressants, osmotic laxatives, and bowel movement frequency. Random forest modelling identifies 12 microbial markers that are effective to distinguish RBD from control. These findings suggest that PD-like gut dysbiosis occurs at the prodromal stages of PD when RBD develops and starts to emerge in the younger RBD-FDR subjects. The study will have etiological and diagnostic implications.


29138692|t|Transcriptomics-driven lipidomics (TDL) identifies the microbiome-regulated targets of ileal lipid metabolism.
29138692|w|Anirikh Chakrabarti; Mathieu Membrez; Delphine Morin-Rivron; Jay Siddharth; Chieh Jason Chou; Hugues Henry; Stephen Bruce; Sylviane Metairon; Frederic Raymond; Bertrand Betrisey; Carole Loyer; Scott J Parkinson; Mojgan Masoodi
29138692|j|NPJ systems biology and applications
29138692|y|2017
29138692|a|The gut microbiome and lipid metabolism are both recognized as essential components in the maintenance of metabolic health. The mechanisms involved are multifactorial and (especially for microbiome) poorly defined. A strategic approach to investigate the complexity of the microbial influence on lipid metabolism would facilitate determination of relevant molecular mechanisms for microbiome-targeted therapeutics. <i>E. coli</i> is associated with obesity and metabolic syndrome and we used this association in conjunction with gnotobiotic models to investigate the impact of <i>E. coli</i> on lipid metabolism. To address the complexities of the integration of the microbiome and lipid metabolism, we developed transcriptomics-driven lipidomics (TDL) to predict the impact of <i>E. coli</i> colonization on lipid metabolism and established mediators of inflammation and insulin resistance including arachidonic acid metabolism, alterations in bile acids and dietary lipid absorption. A microbiome-related therapeutic approach targeting these mechanisms may therefore provide a therapeutic avenue supporting maintenance of metabolic health.


38275646|t|Trihexyphenidyl Alters Its Host's Metabolism, Neurobehavioral Patterns, and Gut Microbiome Feedback Loop-The Modulating Role of <i>Anacyclus pyrethrum</i>.
38275646|w|Abdelmounaim Baslam; Hajar Azraida; Rachida Aboufatima; Mohamed Ait-El-Mokhtar; Ilham Dilagui; Samia Boussaa; Abderrahman Chait; Marouane Baslam
38275646|j|Antioxidants (Basel, Switzerland)
38275646|y|2023
38275646|a|Trihexyphenidyl (THP)-a synthetic anticholinergic medication used to manage parkinsonism and extrapyramidal symptoms-has gained significant clinical recognition. However, there is a critical gap in understanding its withdrawal effects. This study investigates the intricate interplay between gut microbiota and oxidative stress during THP withdrawal. Furthermore, it explores the therapeutic potential of <i>Anacyclus pyrethrum</i> (AEAP) for alleviating the associated adverse effects. This comprehensive research combines behavioral tests, biochemical analysis, gut microbiome assessment utilizing matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS), and oxidative stress measures. The results reveal that the chronic administration of THP leads to severe withdrawal syndrome, marked by heightened anxiety, depressive-like behaviors, increased cortisol levels, elevated oxidative stress, and gut dysbiosis. However, the administration of AEAP alongside THP shows a significant capacity to mitigate these deleterious effects. Co-treatment and post-treatment with AEAP increased bacterial density and diversity, promoting the proliferation of beneficial bacteria associated with improved gut health. Furthermore, AEAP administration reduced cortisol levels and exhibited potent antioxidant properties, effectively countering the THP-induced oxidative damage. This study highlights the withdrawal effects of THP and underscores the therapeutic potential of AEAP for managing these symptoms. The findings reveal its promising effects in alleviating behavioral and biochemical impairments, reducing oxidative stress, and restoring gut microbiota, which could significantly impact the clinical management of THP withdrawal and potentially extend to other substance withdrawal scenarios.


37323145|t|Therapies for Parkinson's disease and the gut microbiome: evidence for bidirectional connection.
37323145|w|Grace Hey; Navya Nair; Emily Klann; Anjela Gurrala; Delaram Safarpour; Volker Mai; Adolfo Ramirez-Zamora; Vinata Vedam-Mai
37323145|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
37323145|y|2023
37323145|a|The gut brain axis (GBA), a bidirectional communication pathway has often been linked to health and disease, and gut microbiota (GM), a key component of this pathway shown to be altered in Parkinson's disease (PD), are suggested to contribute to the pathogenesis of PD. There are few studies that report the impact of oral medication therapy on GM, however, there are even fewer studies that discuss the impact of other treatments such as device assisted therapies (DAT) including deep brain stimulation (DBS), levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel infusion (LCIG) and photobiomodulation (PBM) and how these might impact GM. Here, we review the literature and summarize findings of the potential contributions of GM to the heterogenous clinical response to pharmaceutical therapies among individuals with PD. We also discuss the potential interactions between the GM and DATs such as DBS and LCIG and present evidence for alterations in GM in response to DATs. Given the complexity and highly individual nature of the GM of patients with PD and the potential influence that other external factors such as diet, lifestyle, medications, stage of the disease and other comorbidities, further investigations into the response of GM to therapies are worthy of future study in prospective, controlled trials as well as medication naïve individuals. Such detailed studies will help us further comprehend the relationship between GM in PD patients, and will help investigate the potential of targeting GM associated changes as a treatment avenue for PD.


36674517|t|The Role of Fecal Microbiota Transplantation in the Treatment of Neurodegenerative Diseases: A Review.
36674517|w|Julie-Anne T Matheson; R M Damian Holsinger
36674517|j|International journal of molecular sciences
36674517|y|2023
36674517|a|Neurodegenerative diseases are highly prevalent but poorly understood, and with few treatment options despite decades of intense research, attention has recently shifted toward other mediators of neurological disease that may present future targets for therapeutic research. One such mediator is the gut microbiome, which communicates with the brain through the gut-brain axis and has been implicated in various neurological disorders. Alterations in the gut microbiome have been associated with numerous neurological and other diseases, and restoration of the dysbiotic gut has been shown to improve disease conditions. One method of restoring a dysbiotic gut is via fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), recolonizing the "diseased" gut with normal microbiome. Fecal microbiota transplantation is a treatment method traditionally used for <i>Clostridium difficile</i> infections, but it has recently been used in neurodegenerative disease research as a potential treatment method. This review aims to present a summary of neurodegenerative research that has used FMT, whether as a treatment or to investigate how the microbiome influences pathogenesis.


37064156|t|Association between gut microbiota and hepatocellular carcinoma from 2011 to 2022: Bibliometric analysis and global trends.
37064156|w|Zhitao Chen; Chenchen Ding; Yangjun Gu; Yahui He; Bing Chen; Shusen Zheng; Qiyong Li
37064156|j|Frontiers in oncology
37064156|y|2023
37064156|a|Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a primary malignant tumor responsible for approximately 90% of all liver cancers in humans, making it one of the leading public health problems worldwide. The gut microbiota is a complex microbial ecosystem that can influence tumor formation, metastasis, and resistance to treatment. Therefore, understanding the potential mechanisms of gut microbiota pathogenesis is critical for the prevention and treatment of HCC. A search was conducted in the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC) database for English literature studies on the relationship between gut microbiota and HCC from 2011 to 2022. Bibliometric analysis tools such as VOSviewer, CiteSpace, and R Studio were used to analyze global trends and research hotspots in this field. A total of 739 eligible publications, comprising of 383 articles and 356 reviews, were analyzed. Over the past 11 years, there has been a rapid increase in the annual number of publications and average citation levels, especially in the last five years. The majority of published articles on this topic originated from China (n=257, 34.78%), followed by the United States of America (n=203, 27.47%), and Italy (n=85, 11.50%). American scholars demonstrated high productivity, prominence, and academic environment influence in the research of this subject. Furthermore, the University of California, San Diego published the most papers (n=24) and had the highest average citation value (value=152.17) in the study of the relationship between gut microbiota and HCC. Schnabl B from the USA and Ohtani N from Japan were the authors with the highest number of publications and average citation value, respectively. In recent years, research on the gut microbiota's role in HCC has made rapid progress. Through a review of published literature, it has been found that the gut microbiota is crucial in the pathogenesis of HCC and in oncotherapy.


35743072|t|PARK7/DJ-1 as a Therapeutic Target in Gut-Brain Axis Diseases.
35743072|w|Domonkos Pap; Apor Veres-Székely; Beáta Szebeni; Ádám Vannay
35743072|j|International journal of molecular sciences
35743072|y|2022
35743072|a|It is increasingly known that Parkinson's (PD) and Alzheimer's (AD) diseases occur more frequently in patients with inflammatory gastrointestinal diseases including inflammatory bowel (IBD) or celiac disease, indicating a pathological link between them. Although epidemiological observations suggest the existence of the gut-brain axis (GBA) involving systemic inflammatory and neural pathways, little is known about the exact molecular mechanisms. Parkinson's disease 7 (PARK7/DJ-1) is a multifunctional protein whose protective role has been widely demonstrated in neurodegenerative diseases, including PD, AD, or ischemic stroke. Recent studies also revealed the importance of PARK7/DJ-1 in the maintenance of the gut microbiome and also in the regulation of intestinal inflammation. All these findings suggest that PARK7/DJ-1 may be a link and also a potential therapeutic target in gut and brain diseases. In this review, therefore, we discuss our current knowledge about PARK7/DJ-1 in the context of GBA diseases.


31317505|t|A Gutsy Move for Cell-Based Regenerative Medicine in Parkinson's Disease: Targeting the Gut Microbiome to Sequester Inflammation and Neurotoxicity.
31317505|w|Jea-Young Lee; Julian P Tuazon; Sydney Corey; Brooke Bonsack; Sandra Acosta; Jared Ehrhart; Paul R Sanberg; Cesario V Borlongan
31317505|j|Stem cell reviews and reports
31317505|y|2019
31317505|a|Pharmaceuticals and cell-based regenerative medicine for Parkinson's disease (PD) offer palliative relief but do not arrest the disease progression. Cell therapy has emerged as an experimental treatment, but current cell sources such as human umbilical cord blood (hUCB) stem cells display only partial recapitulation of mature dopaminergic neuron phenotype and function. Nonetheless, stem cell grafts ameliorate PD-associated histological and behavioral deficits likely through stem cell graft-secreted therapeutic substances. We recently demonstrated the potential of hUCB-derived plasma in enhancing motor capabilities and gastrointestinal function, as well as preventing dopaminergic neuronal cell loss, in an 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-pyridine (MPTP) rodent model of PD. Recognizing the translational need to test in another PD model, we now examined here the effects of an intravenously transplanted combination of hUCB and plasma into the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned adult rats. Animals received three separate doses of 4 × 10<sup>6</sup> hUCB cells with plasma beginning at 7 days after stereotaxic 6-OHDA lesion, then behaviorally and immunohistochemically evaluated over 56 days post-lesion. Whereas vehicle-treated lesioned animals exhibited the typical 6-OHDA neurobehavioral symptoms, hUCB and plasma-treated lesioned animals showed significant attenuation of motor function, gut motility, and nigral dopaminergic neuronal survival, combined with diminished pro-inflammatory microbiomes not only in the nigra, but also in the gut. Altogether these data support a regenerative medicine approach for PD by sequestering inflammation and neurotoxicity through correction of gut dysbiosis.


34346706|t|Gut Microbiome and Serum Metabolome Alterations Associated with Isolated Dystonia.
34346706|w|Lingyan Ma; Jing Keng; Min Cheng; Hua Pan; Bo Feng; Yongfeng Hu; Tao Feng; Fan Yang
34346706|j|mSphere
34346706|y|2021
34346706|a|Dystonia is a complex neurological movement disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions. Increasing studies implicate the microbiome as a possible key susceptibility factor for neurological disorders, but the relationship between the gut microbiota and dystonia remains poorly explored. Here, the gut microbiota of 57 patients with isolated dystonia and 27 age- and environment-matched healthy controls was analyzed by 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Further, integrative analysis of the gut microbiome and serum metabolome measured by high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was performed. No difference in α-diversity was found, while β-diversity was significantly different, with a more heterogeneous community structure among dystonia patients than among controls. The most significant changes in dystonia highlighted an increase in <i>Clostridiales</i>, including Blautia obeum, Dorea longicatena, and Eubacterium hallii, and a reduction in Bacteroides vulgatus and Bacteroides plebeius. The functional analysis revealed that genes related to tryptophan and purine biosynthesis were more abundant in gut microbiota from patients with dystonia, while genes linked to citrate cycle, vitamin B<sub>6</sub>, and glycan metabolism were less abundant. The evaluation of serum metabolites revealed altered levels of l-glutamic acid, taurine, and d-tyrosine, suggesting changes in neurotransmitter metabolism. The most modified metabolites strongly inversely correlated with the abundance of members belonging to the <i>Clostridiales</i>, revealing the effect of the gut microbiota on neurometabolic activity. This study is the first to reveal gut microbial dysbiosis in patients with isolated dystonia and identified potential links between gut microbiota and serum neurotransmitters, providing new insight into the pathogenesis of isolated dystonia. <b>IMPORTANCE</b> Dystonia is the third most common movement disorder after essential tremor and Parkinson's disease. However, the cause for the majority of cases is not known. This is the first study so far that reveals significant alterations of gut microbiome and correlates the alteration of serum metabolites with gut dysbiosis in patients with isolated dystonia. We demonstrated a general overrepresentation of <i>Clostridiales</i> and underrepresentation of <i>Bacteroidetes</i> in patients with dystonia in comparison with healthy controls. The functional analysis found that genes related to the biosynthesis of tryptophan, which is the precursor of the neurotransmitter serotonin, were more active in isolated dystonia patients. Altered levels of several serum metabolites were found to be associated with microbial changes, such as d-tyrosine, taurine, and glutamate, indicating differences in neurotransmitter metabolism in isolated dystonia. Integrative analysis suggests that neurotransmitter system dysfunction may be a possible pathway by which the gut microbiome participates in the development of dystonia. The gut microbiome changes provide new insight into the pathogenesis of dystonia, suggesting new potential therapeutic directions.


36216843|t|Fecal microbiome alterations in treatment-naive de novo Parkinson's disease.
36216843|w|Jeffrey M Boertien; Kirsi Murtomäki; Pedro A B Pereira; Sygrid van der Zee; Tuomas H Mertsalmi; Reeta Levo; Tanja Nojonen; Elina Mäkinen; Elina Jaakkola; Pia Laine; Lars Paulin; Eero Pekkonen; Valtteri Kaasinen; Petri Auvinen; Filip Scheperjans; Teus van Laar
36216843|j|NPJ Parkinson's disease
36216843|y|2022
36216843|a|Gut microbiota alterations in Parkinson's disease (PD) have been found in several studies and are suggested to contribute to the pathogenesis of PD. However, previous results could not be adequately adjusted for a potential confounding effect of PD medication and disease duration, as almost all PD participants were already using dopaminergic medication and were included several years after diagnosis. Here, the gut microbiome composition of treatment-naive de novo PD subjects was assessed compared to healthy controls (HC) in two large independent case-control cohorts (n = 136 and 56 PD, n = 85 and 87 HC), using 16S-sequencing of fecal samples. Relevant variables such as technical batches, diet and constipation were assessed for their potential effects. Overall gut microbiome composition differed between PD and HC in both cohorts, suggesting gut microbiome alterations are already present in de novo PD subjects at the time of diagnosis, without the possible confounding effect of dopaminergic medication. Although no differentially abundant taxon could be replicated in both cohorts, multiple short chain fatty acids (SCFA) producing taxa were decreased in PD in both cohorts. In particular, several taxa belonging to the family Lachnospiraceae were decreased in abundance. Fewer taxonomic differences were found compared to previous studies, indicating smaller effect sizes in de novo PD.


30207256|t|Microbiota-gut-brain research: A critical analysis.
30207256|w|Katarzyna B Hooks; Jan Pieter Konsman; Maureen A O'Malley
30207256|j|The Behavioral and brain sciences
30207256|y|2018
30207256|a|Microbiota-gut-brain (MGB) research is a fast-growing field of inquiry with important implications for how human brain function and behaviour are understood. Researchers manipulate gut microbes ("microbiota") to reveal connections between intestinal microbiota and normal brain functions (e.g., cognition, emotion, and memory) or pathological states (e.g., anxiety, mood disorders, and neural developmental disorders such as autism). Many claims are made about causal relationships between gut microbiota and human behaviour. By uncovering these relationships, MGB research aims to offer new explanations of mental health and potential avenues of treatment.So far, limited evaluation has been made of MGB's methods and its core experimental findings, many of which are extensively reiterated in copious reviews of the field. These factors, plus the self-help potential of MGB, have combined to encourage uncritical public uptake of MGB discoveries. Both social and professional media focus on the potential for dietary intervention in mental health, and causal relationships are assumed to be established.Our target article has two main aims. One is to examine critically the core practices and findings of experimental MGB research and to raise questions about them for brain and behavioural scientists who may not be familiar with the field. The other is to challenge the way in which MGB findings are presented. Our positive goal is to suggest how current problems and weaknesses may be addressed, in order for both scientific and public audiences to gain a clearer picture of MGB research and its strengths and limitations.


32791113|t|The Microbiome as a Modifier of Neurodegenerative Disease Risk.
32791113|w|P Fang; S A Kazmi; K G Jameson; E Y Hsiao
32791113|j|Cell host & microbe
32791113|y|2020
32791113|a|The gut microbiome is increasingly implicated in modifying susceptibility to and progression of neurodegenerative diseases (NDs). In this review, we discuss roles for the microbiome in aging and in NDs. In particular, we summarize findings from human studies on microbiome alterations in Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Huntington's disease. We assess animal studies of genetic and environmental models for NDs that investigate how manipulations of the microbiome causally impact the development of behavioral and neuropathological endophenotypes of disease. We additionally evaluate the likely immunological, neuronal, and metabolic mechanisms for how the gut microbiota may modulate risk for NDs. Finally, we speculate on cross-cutting features for microbial influences across multiple NDs and consider the potential for microbiome-targeted interventions for NDs.


34489756|t|The LIFEwithIBD Intervention: Study Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial of a Face-to-Face Acceptance and Commitment Therapy and Compassion-Based Intervention Tailored to People With Inflammatory Bowel Disease.
34489756|w|Inês A Trindade; Joana Pereira; Ana Galhardo; Nuno B Ferreira; Paola Lucena-Santos; Sérgio A Carvalho; Sara Oliveira; David Skvarc; Bárbara S Rocha; Francisco Portela; Cláudia Ferreira
34489756|j|Frontiers in psychiatry
34489756|y|2021
34489756|a|<b>Background:</b> There is ample evidence of the high mental health burden caused by Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD). Several constructs such as experiential avoidance, cognitive fusion, shame, and self-criticism have recently emerged as potential intervention targets to improve mental health in IBD. Psychotherapeutic models such as Acceptance and Commitment Therapy and compassion-based interventions are known to target these constructs. In this protocol, we aim to describe a two-arm Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) testing the efficacy of an ACT and compassion-focused intervention named Living with Intention, Fullness, and Engagement with Inflammatory Bowel Disease (LIFEwithIBD) intervention + Treatment As Usual (TAU) vs. TAU in improving psychological distress, quality of life, work and social functioning, IBD symptom perception, illness-related shame, psychological flexibility, self-compassion, disease activity, inflammation biomarkers, and gut microbiota diversity. <b>Methods:</b> This trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (Identifier: NCT03840707, date assigned 13/02/2019). The LIFEwithIBD intervention is an adaptation to the IBD population of the Mind programme for people with cancer, an acceptance, mindfulness, and compassion-based intervention designed to be delivered in a group format. The LIFEwithIBD intervention's structure and topics are presented in this protocol. Participants were recruited at the Gastroenterology Service of the Coimbra University Hospital between June and September 2019. Of the 355 patients screened, 61 participants were selected, randomly assigned to one of two conditions [experimental group (LIFEwithIBD + TAU) or control group (TAU)] and completed the baseline assessment. Outcome measurement took place at baseline, post-intervention, 3- and 12-month follow-ups. <b>Discussion:</b> Results from this RCT will support future studies testing the LIFEwithIBD intervention or other acceptance and/or compassion-based interventions for IBD.


38410510|t|Exploring the interplay between posttraumatic stress disorder, gut microbiota, and inflammatory biomarkers: a comprehensive meta-analysis.
38410510|w|Pavlo Petakh; Valentyn Oksenych; Iryna Kamyshna; Iryna Boisak; Katerina Lyubomirskaya; Oleksandr Kamyshnyi
38410510|j|Frontiers in immunology
38410510|y|2024
38410510|a|Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is the most common mental health disorder to develop following exposure to trauma. Studies have reported conflicting results regarding changes in immune biomarkers and alterations in the abundance of bacterial taxa and microbial diversity in patients with PTSD. The purpose of this meta-analysis is to summarize existing studies examining gut microbiota characteristics and changes in immune biomarkers in patients with PTSD. Relevant studies were systematically searched in PubMed, Scopus, and Embase, published in English between January 1, 1960, and December 1, 2023. The outcomes included changes in abundance and diversity in gut microbiota (gut microbiota part) and changes in immune biomarkers (immune part). The meta-analysis included a total of 15 studies, with 9 focusing on changes in inflammatory biomarkers and 6 focusing on changes in gut microbiota composition in patients with PTSD. No differences were observed between groups for all inflammatory biomarkers (P≥0.05). Two of the six studies found that people with PTSD had less alpha diversity. However, the overall Standardized Mean Difference (SMD) for the Shannon Diversity Index was not significant (SMD 0.27, 95% CI -0.62-0.609, p = 0.110). Regarding changes in abundance, in two of the studies, a significant decrease in Lachnospiraceae bacteria was observed. This meta-analysis provides a comprehensive overview of gut microbiota characteristics in PTSD, suggesting potential associations with immune dysregulation. Future research should address study limitations, explore causal relationships, and consider additional factors influencing immune function in individuals with PTSD. https://www.crd.york.ac.uk, identifier CRD42023476590.


36943505|t|Ketogenic diet for mood disorders from animal models to clinical application.
36943505|w|Ilya V Smolensky; Kilian Zajac-Bakri; Peter Gass; Dragos Inta
36943505|j|Journal of neural transmission (Vienna, Austria : 1996)
36943505|y|2023
36943505|a|Mood disorders such as major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BD) are often resistant to current pharmacological treatment. Therefore, various alternative therapeutic approaches including diets are, therefore, under investigation. Ketogenic diet (KD) is effective for treatment-resistant epilepsy and metabolic diseases, however, only a few clinical studies suggest its beneficial effect also for mental disorders. Animal models are a useful tool to uncover the underlying mechanisms of therapeutic effects. Women have a twice-higher prevalence of mood disorders but very little is known about sex differences in nutritional psychiatry. In this review, we aim to summarize current knowledge of the sex-specific effects of KD in mood disorders. Ketone bodies improve mitochondrial functions and suppress oxidative stress, inducing neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects which are both beneficial for mental health. Limited data also suggest KD-induced improvement of monoaminergic circuits and hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis-the key pathophysiological pathways of mood disorders. Gut microbiome is an important mediator of the beneficial and detrimental effects of diet on brain functioning and mental health. Gut microbiota composition is affected in mood disorders but its role in the therapeutic effects of different diets, including KD, remains poorly understood. Still little is known about sex differences in the effects of KD on mental health as well as on metabolism and body weight. Some animal studies used both sexes but did not find differences in behavior, body weight loss or gut microbiota composition. More studies, both on a preclinical and clinical level, are needed to better understand sex-specific effects of KD on mental health.


36334762|t|Are neuromodulation interventions associated with changes in the gut microbiota? A systematic review.
36334762|w|Vera Korenblik; Marlies E Brouwer; Aniko Korosi; Damiaan Denys; Claudi L H Bockting; Stanley Brul; Anja Lok
36334762|j|Neuropharmacology
36334762|y|2023
36334762|a|The microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA) refers to the bidirectional communication between the brain and the gut microbiota and recent studies have linked the MGBA to health and disease. Research has so far investigated this axis mainly from microbiota to brain but less is known about the other direction. One approach to examine the MGBA from brain to microbiota is through understanding if and how neuromodulation might impact microbiota. Neuromodulation encompasses a wide range of stimulation techniques and is used to treat neurological, psychiatric and metabolic disorders, like Parkinson's Disease, depression and obesity. Here, we performed a systematic review to investigate whether neuromodulation is associated with subsequent changes in the gut microbiota. Searches in PsycINFO and MEDLINE were performed up to March 2022. Included studies needed to be clinical or preclinical studies comparing the effects of deep brain stimulation, electroconvulsive therapy, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, transcranial direct current stimulation or vagal nerve stimulation on the gut microbiota before and after treatment or between active and control groups. Seven studies were identified. Neuromodulation was associated with changes in relative bacterial abundances, but not with (changes in) α-diversity or β-diversity. Summarizing, currently reported findings suggest that neuromodulation interventions are associated with moderate changes in the gut microbiome. However, findings remain inconclusive due to the limited number and varying quality of included studies, as well as the large heterogeneity between studies. More research is required to more conclusively establish whether, and if so, via which mechanism(s) of action neuromodulation interventions might influence the gut microbiota.


37110302|t|Gut Dysbiosis: A Target for Protective Interventions against Parkinson's Disease.
37110302|w|Illyane S Lima; Ana C Pêgo; Ana C Martins; Ana R Prada; João Tomás Barros; Gracelino Martins; Raffaella Gozzelino
37110302|j|Microorganisms
37110302|y|2023
37110302|a|Sub-chronic inflammation, caused by age-related dysbiosis, primes the brain to neuroinflammation and neurodegenerative diseases. Evidence revealed that Parkinson's disease (PD) might originate in the gut, demonstrating gastro-intestinal disturbances, as reported by PD patients long before developing motor symptoms. In this study, we conducted comparative analyses in relatively young and old mice maintained in conventional or gnotobiotic conditions. We aimed to confirm that the effects induced by age-related dysbiosis, rather than aging itself, sensitize to PD onset. This hypothesis was confirmed in germ-free (GF) mice, which proved resistant to the pharmacological induction of PD, regardless of their age. Contrary to conventional animals, old GF mice did not develop an inflammatory phenotype or an accumulation of iron in the brain, two catalysts sensitizing to disease onset. The resistance of GF mice to PD is reverted when colonized with stool collected from conventional old animals, but not if receiving bacterial content from young mice. Hence, changes in gut microbiota composition are a risk factor for PD development and can be targeted preventively by iron chelators, shown to protect the brain from pro-inflammatory intestinal priming that sensitizes to neuroinflammation and the development of severe PD.


37343494|t|Gut microbes influence the development of central nervous system disorders through epigenetic inheritance.
37343494|w|Tianyou Liu; Dongru Du; Rui Zhao; Qinglian Xie; Zaiquan Dong
37343494|j|Microbiological research
37343494|y|2023
37343494|a|Central nervous system (CNS) disorders, such as depression, anxiety, and Alzheimer's disease (AD), affect quality of life of patients and pose significant economic and social burdens worldwide. Due to their obscure and complex pathogeneses, current therapies for these diseases have limited efficacy. Over the past decade, the gut microbiome has been shown to exhibit direct and indirect influences on the structure and function of the CNS, affecting multiple pathological pathways. In addition to the direct interactions between the gut microbiota and CNS, the gut microbiota and their metabolites can regulate epigenetic processes, including DNA methylation, histone modification, and regulation of non-coding RNAs. In this review, we discuss the tripartite relationship among gut microbiota, epigenetic inheritance, and CNS disorders. We suggest that gut microbes and their metabolites influence the pathogenesis of CNS disorders at the epigenetic level, which may inform the development of effective therapeutic strategies for CNS disorders.


33307114|t|Possible use of fermented foods in rehabilitation of anorexia nervosa: the gut microbiota as a modulator.
33307114|w|Tetyana Rocks; Madeline West; Meghan Hockey; Hajara Aslam; Melissa Lane; Amy Loughman; Felice N Jacka; Anu Ruusunen
33307114|j|Progress in neuro-psychopharmacology & biological psychiatry
33307114|y|2021
33307114|a|Anorexia nervosa is a serious psychiatric disorder with high morbidity and mortality rate. Evidence for the optimal psychopharmacological approach to managing the disorder remains limited, with nutritional treatment, focused on weight restoration through the consumption of high energy diet, regarded as one of the fundamental steps in treatment. The human gut microbiome is increasingly recognised for its proposed role in gastrointestinal, metabolic, immune and mental health, all of which may be compromised in individuals with anorexia nervosa. Dietary intake plays an important role in shaping gut microbiota composition, whilst the use of fermented foods, foods with potential psychobiotic properties that deliver live bacteria, bacterial metabolites, prebiotics and energy, have been discussed to a lesser extent. However, fermented foods are of increasing interest due to their potential capacity to affect gut microbiota composition, provide beneficial bacterial metabolites, and confer beneficial outcomes to host health. This review provides an overview of the role of the gut microbiota in relation to the disease pathology in anorexia nervosa and especially focuses on the therapeutic potential of fermented foods, proposed here as a recommended addition to the current nutritional treatment protocols warranting further investigation.


38426291|t|The microbiota-gut-brain axis in Huntington's disease: pathogenic mechanisms and therapeutic targets.
38426291|w|Millicent N Ekwudo; Carolina Gubert; Anthony J Hannan
38426291|j|The FEBS journal
38426291|y|2024
38426291|a|Huntington's disease (HD) is a currently incurable neurogenerative disorder and is typically characterized by progressive movement disorder (including chorea), cognitive deficits (culminating in dementia), psychiatric abnormalities (the most common of which is depression), and peripheral symptoms (including gastrointestinal dysfunction). There are currently no approved disease-modifying therapies available for HD, with death usually occurring approximately 10-25 years after onset, but some therapies hold promising potential. HD subjects are often burdened by chronic diarrhea, constipation, esophageal and gastric inflammation, and a susceptibility to diabetes. Our understanding of the microbiota-gut-brain axis in HD is in its infancy and growing evidence from preclinical and clinical studies suggests a role of gut microbial population imbalance (gut dysbiosis) in HD pathophysiology. The gut and the brain can communicate through the enteric nervous system, immune system, vagus nerve, and microbiota-derived-metabolites including short-chain fatty acids, bile acids, and branched-chain amino acids. This review summarizes supporting evidence demonstrating the alterations in bacterial and fungal composition that may be associated with HD. We focus on mechanisms through which gut dysbiosis may compromise brain and gut health, thus triggering neuroinflammatory responses, and further highlight outcomes of attempts to modulate the gut microbiota as promising therapeutic strategies for HD. Ultimately, we discuss the dearth of data and the need for more longitudinal and translational studies in this nascent field. We suggest future directions to improve our understanding of the association between gut microbes and the pathogenesis of HD, and other 'brain and body disorders'.


31505196|t|MitoPark transgenic mouse model recapitulates the gastrointestinal dysfunction and gut-microbiome changes of Parkinson's disease.
31505196|w|Shivani Ghaisas; Monica R Langley; Bharathi N Palanisamy; Somak Dutta; Kirthi Narayanaswamy; Paul J Plummer; Souvarish Sarkar; Muhammet Ay; Huajun Jin; Vellareddy Anantharam; Arthi Kanthasamy; Anumantha G Kanthasamy
31505196|j|Neurotoxicology
31505196|y|2019
31505196|a|Gastrointestinal (GI) disturbances are one of the earliest symptoms affecting most patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). In many cases, these symptoms are observed years before motor impairments become apparent. Hence, the molecular and cellular underpinnings that contribute to this early GI dysfunction in PD have actively been explored using a relevant animal model. The MitoPark model is a chronic, progressive mouse model recapitulating several key pathophysiological aspects of PD. However, GI dysfunction and gut microbiome changes have not been categorized in this model. Herein, we show that decreased GI motility was one of the first non-motor symptoms to develop, evident as early as 8 weeks with significantly different transit times from 12 weeks onwards. These symptoms were observed well before motor symptoms developed, thereby paralleling PD progression in humans. At age 24 weeks, we observed increased colon transit time and reduced fecal water content, indicative of constipation. Intestinal inflammation was evidenced with increased expression of iNOS and TNFα in the small and large intestine. Specifically, iNOS was observed mainly in the enteric plexi, indicating enteric glial cell activation. A pronounced loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons occurred at 24 weeks both in the mid-brain region as well as the gut, leading to a corresponding decrease in dopamine (DA) production. We also observed decreased DARPP-32 expression in the colon, validating the loss of DAergic neurons in the gut. However, the total number of enteric neurons did not significantly differ between the two groups. Metabolomic gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis of fecal samples showed increased sterol, glycerol, and tocopherol production in MitoPark mice compared to age-matched littermate controls at 20 weeks of age while 16 s microbiome sequencing showed a transient temporal increase in the genus Prevotella. Altogether, the data shed more light on the role of the gut dopaminergic system in maintaining intestinal health. Importantly, this model recapitulates the chronology and development of GI dysfunction along with other non-motor symptoms and can become an attractive translational animal model for pre-clinical assessment of the efficacy of new anti-Parkinsonian drugs that can alleviate GI dysfunction in PD.


33334010|t|Food Addiction and Tobacco Use Disorder: Common Liability and Shared Mechanisms.
33334010|w|Laurie Zawertailo; Sophia Attwells; Wayne K deRuiter; Thao Lan Le; Danielle Dawson; Peter Selby
33334010|j|Nutrients
33334010|y|2020
33334010|a|As food addiction is being more commonly recognized within the scientific community, parallels can be drawn between it and other addictive substance use disorders, including tobacco use disorder. Given that both unhealthy diets and smoking are leading risk factors for disability and death, a greater understanding of how food addiction and tobacco use disorder overlap with one another is necessary. This narrative review aimed to highlight literature that investigated prevalence, biology, psychology, and treatment options of food addiction and tobacco use disorder. Published studies up to August 2020 and written in English were included. Using a biopsychosocial lens, each disorder was assessed together and separately, as there is emerging evidence that the two disorders can develop concurrently or sequentially within individuals. Commonalities include but are not limited to the dopaminergic neurocircuitry, gut microbiota, childhood adversity, and attachment insecurity. In addition, the authors conducted a feasibility study with the purpose of examining the association between food addiction symptoms and tobacco use disorder among individuals seeking tobacco use disorder treatment. To inform future treatment approaches, more research is necessary to identify and understand the overlap between the two disorders.


34691318|t|Microbial Therapeutics in Neurocognitive and Psychiatric Disorders.
34691318|w|Kannayiram Alagiakrishnan; Tyler Halverson
34691318|j|Journal of clinical medicine research
34691318|y|2021
34691318|a|Microbial therapeutics, which include gut biotics and fecal transplantation, are interventions designed to improve the gut microbiome. Gut biotics can be considered as the administration of direct microbial populations. The delivery of this can be done through live microbial flora, certain food like fiber, microbial products (metabolites and elements) obtained through the fermentation of food products, or as genetically engineered substances, that may have therapeutic benefit on different health disorders. Dietary intervention and pharmacological supplements with gut biotics aim at correcting disruption of the gut microbiota by repopulating with beneficial microorganism leading to decrease in gut permeability, inflammation, and alteration in metabolic activities, through a variety of mechanisms of action. Our understanding of the pharmacokinetics of microbial therapeutics has improved with <i>in vitro</i> models, sampling techniques in the gut, and tools for the reliable identification of gut biotics. Evidence from human studies points out that prebiotics, probiotics and synbiotics have the potential for treating and preventing mental health disorders, whereas with paraprobiotics, proteobiotics and postbiotics, the research is limited at this point. Some animal studies point out that gut biotics can be used with conventional treatments for a synergistic effect on mental health disorders. If future research shows that there is a possibility of synergistic effect of psychotropic medications with gut biotics, then a gut biotic or nutritional prescription can be given along with psychotropics. Even though the overall safety of gut biotics seems to be good, caution is needed to watch for any known and unknown side effects as well as the need for risk benefit analysis with certain vulnerable populations. Future research is needed before wide spread use of natural and genetically engineered gut biotics. Regulatory framework for gut biotics needs to be optimized. Holistic understanding of gut dysbiosis, along with life style factors, by health care providers is necessary for the better management of these conditions. In conclusion, microbial therapeutics are a new psychotherapeutic approach which offer some hope in certain conditions like dementia and depression. Future of microbial therapeutics will be driven by well-done randomized controlled trials and longitudinal research, as well as by replication studies in human subjects.


36881113|t|Mesenchymal stem-cell-derived microvesicles ameliorate MPTP-induced neurotoxicity in mice: a role of the gut-microbiota-brain axis.
36881113|w|Yaoyu Pu; Qiuhong Wu; Qiuping Zhang; Tianwen Huang; Ji Wen; Long Wei; Kenji Hashimoto; Yi Liu
36881113|j|Psychopharmacology
36881113|y|2023
36881113|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic and progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Increasing evidence suggests the role of the gut-microbiota-brain axis in the pathogenesis of PD. Mesenchymal stem-cell-derived microvesicles (MSC-MVs) have emerged as a therapeutic potential for neurological disorders over the last years. The objective of this study was to investigate whether MSC-MVs could improve PD-like neurotoxicity in mice after administration of MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine). MPTP-induced reductions in the dopamine transporter and tyrosine hydroxylase expressions in the striatum and substantia nigra (SNr) were attenuated after a subsequent single administration of MSC-MVs. Increases in the phosphorylated α-synuclein (p-α-Syn)/α-Syn ratio in the striatum, SNr, and colon after MPTP injection were also attenuated after MSC-MVs injection. Furthermore, MSC-MVs restored MPTP-induced abnormalities of the gut microbiota composition. Interestingly, positive correlations between the genus Dubosiella and the p-α-Syn/α-Syn ratio were observed in the brain and colon, suggesting their roles in the gut-microbiota-brain communication. Moreover, MSC-MVs attenuated MPTP-induced reduction of the metabolite, 3,6-dihydroxy-2-[3-methoxy-4-(sulfooxy)phenyl]-7-(sulfinooxy)-3,4-dihydro-2H-1-benzopyran-5-olate, in the blood. Interestingly, a negative correlation between this compound and the p-α-Syn/α-Syn ratio was observed in the brain and colon. These data suggest that MSC-MVs could ameliorate MPTP-induced neurotoxicity in the brain and colon via the gut-microbiota-brain axis. Therefore, MSC-MVs would have a new therapeutic potential for neurological disorders such as PD.


34329424|t|Probiotics-targeting new milestones from gut health to mental health.
34329424|w|Gargi Dey; Sohom Mookherjee
34329424|j|FEMS microbiology letters
34329424|y|2021
34329424|a|Conventional probiotic food research was primarily focused on their benefits for gut health. Recently with the confirmation that the gut microbiota has a bidirectional connection with the brain, it is being proposed that modification of the microbiota can possibly extirpate neurological diseases. Development of probiotic foods and formulations for neural health benefits has garnered interest, with a renewed focus. In this context, this review discusses the evidences collected on the anxiolytic and antidepressant effects of probiotics, especially during the time span of 2015-till now. Although, more clinical trials are necessary to elucidate the exact mechanism of probiotic mode of action but several of the established probiotic strains have been investigated and it appears that few of them have demonstrated their potential as 'psychobiotics'. The formulation of new psychobiotic-based therapeutics is in the spotlight. It is expected that in near future, biological effect of probiotics on neurological conditions will open up an entirely new avenue for personalized medication and healthcare in mental health, and they can be tailored according to the gut-microbiota of specific individuals.


37414494|t|Neuroinflammation through the vagus nerve-dependent gut-microbiota-brain axis in treatment-resistant depression.
37414494|w|Kenji Hashimoto
37414494|j|Progress in brain research
37414494|y|2023
37414494|a|Neuroinflammation plays a key role in the pathogenesis of major depressive disorder (MDD), including treatment-resistant depression (TRD). Patients with TRD have higher levels of inflammatory biomarkers compared with responders to antidepressants. Multiple lines of evidence suggest that the gut-microbiota-brain axis via the vagus nerve plays a key role in neuroinflammation. Preclinical and clinical data suggest that fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) from MDD patients or rodents with depression-like behaviors cause depression-like behaviors in rodents through systemic inflammation. Importantly, subdiaphragmatic vagotomy blocked these depression-like phenotypes and systemic inflammation in rodents after FMT of depression-related microbes. Subdiaphragmatic vagotomy also blocked the antidepressant-like effects of serotonergic antidepressants in rodents. Preclinical findings suggest that the new antidepressant, (R)-ketamine (or arketamine), may restore the altered composition of gut microbiota in rodents with depression-like behaviors, contributing to the beneficial effects of arketamine. In this chapter, the author reviews the role of the vagus nerve-dependent gut-microbiota-brain axis in depression (including TRD), and also discuss the potential of FMT, vagus nerve stimulation, and arketamine for the treatment of TRD.


30513869|t|One Health, Fermented Foods, and Gut Microbiota.
30513869|w|Victoria Bell; Jorge Ferrão; Lígia Pimentel; Manuela Pintado; Tito Fernandes
30513869|j|Foods (Basel, Switzerland)
30513869|y|2018
30513869|a|Changes in present-day society such as diets with more sugar, salt, and saturated fat, bad habits and unhealthy lifestyles contribute to the likelihood of the involvement of the microbiota in inflammatory diseases, which contribute to global epidemics of obesity, depression, and mental health concerns. The microbiota is presently one of the hottest areas of scientific and medical research, and exerts a marked influence on the host during homeostasis and disease. Fermented foods and beverages are generally defined as products made by microbial organisms and enzymatic conversions of major and minor food components. Further to the commonly-recognized effects of nutrition on the digestive health (e.g., dysbiosis) and well-being, there is now strong evidence for the impact of fermented foods and beverages (e.g., yoghurt, pickles, bread, kefir, beers, wines, mead), produced or preserved by the action of microorganisms, on general health, namely their significance on the gut microbiota balance and brain functionality. Fermented products require microorganisms, i.e., <i>Saccharomyces</i> yeasts and lactic acid bacteria, yielding alcohol and lactic acid. Ingestion of vibrant probiotics, especially those contained in fermented foods, is found to cause significant positive improvements in balancing intestinal permeability and barrier function. Our guts control and deal with every aspect of our health. How we digest our food and even the food sensitivities we have is linked with our mood, behavior, energy, weight, food cravings, hormone balance, immunity, and overall wellness. We highlight some impacts in this domain and debate calls for the convergence of interdisciplinary research fields from the United Nations' initiative. Worldwide human and animal medicine are practiced separately; veterinary science and animal health are generally neither considered nor inserted within national or international Health discussions. The absence of a clear definition and subsequent vision for the future of One Health may act as a barrier to transdisciplinary collaboration. The point of this mini review is to highlight the role of fermented foods and beverages on gut microbiota and debate if the need for confluence of transdisciplinary fields of One Health is feasible and achievable, since they are managed by separate sectors with limited communication.


37121952|t|Connecting the Gut Microbiota and Neurodegenerative Diseases: the Role of Bile Acids.
37121952|w|Shixu Wang; Chongchong Xu; Hongyan Liu; Wei Wei; Xuemei Zhou; Haipeng Qian; Li Zhou; Haiqing Zhang; Li Wu; Chen Zhu; Yuting Yang; Lin He; Kuan Li
37121952|j|Molecular neurobiology
37121952|y|2023
37121952|a|With the acceleration of global population aging, neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) will become the second leading cause of death in the world, which seriously threatens human life and health. Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease are the most common and typical NDs. The exact mechanisms of the NDs occurrence and development remain unclear, which may be related to immune, oxidative stress, and abnormal aggregation of pathogenic proteins. Studies have suggested that gut microbiota (GM) influences brain function and plays an important role in regulating emotional and cognitive function. Recently, bile acids (BAs) have become the "star molecule" in the microbiota-gut-brain (MGB) axis research. BAs have been reported to exert anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and neuroprotective activities in NDs. However, the role of BAs in the connection between GM and the central nervous system (CNS) is still unclear. In this review, we will review the possible mechanisms of BAs between GM and NDs and explore the function of BAs to provide ideas for the prevention and treatment of NDs in the future.


29031410|t|Harnessing Gut Microbes for Mental Health: Getting From Here to There.
29031410|w|Annadora J Bruce-Keller; J Michael Salbaum; Hans-Rudolf Berthoud
29031410|j|Biological psychiatry
29031410|y|2018
29031410|a|There has been an explosion of interest in the study of microorganisms inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract (gut microbiota) and their impact on host health and physiology. Accumulating data suggest that altered communication between gut microbiota and host systems could participate in disorders such as obesity, diabetes mellitus, and autoimmune disorders as well as neuropsychiatric disorders, including autism, anxiety, and major depressive disorders. The conceptual development of the microbiome-gut-brain axis has facilitated understanding of the complex and bidirectional networks between gastrointestinal microbiota and their host, highlighting potential mechanisms through which this environment influences central nervous system physiology. Communication pathways between gut microbiota and the central nervous system could include autonomic, neuroendocrine, enteric, and immune systems, with pathology resulting in disruption to neurotransmitter balance, increases in chronic inflammation, or exacerbated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity. However, uncertainty remains regarding the generalizability of controlled animal studies to the more multifaceted pattern of human pathophysiology, especially with regard to the therapeutic potential for neuropsychiatric health. This narrative review summarizes current understanding of gut microbial influence over physiological function, with an emphasis on neurobehavioral and neurological impairment based on growing understanding of the gut-brain axis. Experimental and clinical data regarding means of therapeutic manipulation of gut microbiota as a novel treatment option for mental health are described, and important knowledge gaps are identified and discussed.


29243233|t|Finding the needle in the haystack: systematic identification of psychobiotics.
29243233|w|Aisling Bambury; Kiran Sandhu; John F Cryan; Timothy G Dinan
29243233|j|British journal of pharmacology
29243233|y|2018
29243233|a|The brain-gut-microbiota axis is increasingly viewed as a novel paradigm in neuroscience with the capacity to generate innovative therapies for patients with psychiatric illnesses. Psychobiotics, defined as live bacteria, which when ingested in adequate amounts, confer mental health benefits, are increasingly of interest, as preclinical trials continue to show promising results. Particularly in stress-related, anxiety and depressive disorders, there is potential for psychobiotics to deliver new therapies. The question of which microbes may prove to be the most promising psychobiotic in delivering such therapies at a clinical level is of great importance. Here we look at the characteristics of psychobiotics, in an attempt to present an outline from which the identification of potential new psychobiotics may be possible. LINKED ARTICLES: This article is part of a themed section on When Pharmacology Meets the Microbiome: New Targets for Therapeutics? To view the other articles in this section visit http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bph.v175.24/issuetoc.


28783713|t|Aging and sarcopenia associate with specific interactions between gut microbes, serum biomarkers and host physiology in rats.
28783713|w|Jay Siddharth; Anirikh Chakrabarti; Alice Pannérec; Sonia Karaz; Delphine Morin-Rivron; Mojgan Masoodi; Jerome N Feige; Scott James Parkinson
28783713|j|Aging
28783713|y|2017
28783713|a|The microbiome has been demonstrated to play an integral role in the maintenance of many aspects of health that are also associated with aging. In order to identify areas of potential exploration and intervention, we simultaneously characterized age-related alterations in gut microbiome, muscle physiology and serum proteomic and lipidomic profiles in aged rats to define an integrated signature of the aging phenotype. We demonstrate that aging skews the composition of the gut microbiome, in particular by altering the Sutterella to Barneseilla ratio, and alters the metabolic potential of intestinal bacteria. Age-related changes of the gut microbiome were associated with the physiological decline of musculoskeletal function, and with molecular markers of nutrient processing/availability, and inflammatory/immune status in aged versus adult rats. Altogether, our study highlights that aging leads to a complex interplay between the microbiome and host physiology, and provides candidate microbial species to target physical and metabolic decline during aging by modulating gut microbial ecology.


38421192|t|Sleep deprivation-induced anxiety-like behaviors are associated with alterations in the gut microbiota and metabolites.
38421192|w|Nana Zhang; Xuefeng Gao; Donghao Li; Lijuan Xu; Guanzhou Zhou; Mengqi Xu; Lihua Peng; Gang Sun; Fei Pan; Yan Li; Rongrong Ren; Ruolan Huang; Yunsheng Yang; Zikai Wang
38421192|j|Microbiology spectrum
38421192|y|2024
38421192|a|The present study aimed to characterize the gut microbiota and serum metabolome changes associated with sleep deprivation (SD) as well as to explore the potential benefits of multi-probiotic supplementation in alleviating SD-related mental health disorders. Rats were subjected to 7 days of SD, followed by 14 days of multi-probiotics or saline administration. Open-field tests were conducted at baseline, end of SD (day 7), and after 14 days of saline or multi-probiotic gavage (day 21). Metagenomic sequencing was conducted on fecal samples, and serum metabolites were measured by untargeted liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry. At day 7, anxiety-like behaviors, including significant decreases in total movement distance (<i>P</i> = 0.0002) and staying time in the central zone (<i>P</i> = 0.021), were observed. In addition, increased levels of lipopolysaccharide (LPS; <i>P</i> = 0.028) and decreased levels of uridine (<i>P</i> = 0.018) and tryptophan (<i>P</i> = 0.01) were detected in rats after 7 days of SD. After SD, the richness of the gut bacterial community increased, and the levels of <i>Akkermansia muciniphila</i>, <i>Muribaculum intestinale</i>, and <i>Bacteroides caecimuris</i> decreased. The changes in the host metabolism and gut microbiota composition were strongly associated with the anxiety-like behaviors caused by SD. In addition, multi-probiotic supplementation for 14 days modestly improved the anxiety-like behaviors in SD rats but significantly reduced the serum level of LPS (<i>P</i> = 0.045). In conclusion, SD induces changes in the gut microbiota and serum metabolites, which may contribute to the development of chronic inflammatory responses and affect the gut-brain axis, causing anxiety-like behaviors. Probiotic supplementation significantly reduces serum LPS, which may alleviate the influence of chronic inflammation. The disturbance in the gut microbiome and serum metabolome induced by SD may be involved in anxiety-like behaviors. Probiotic supplementation decreases serum levels of LPS, but this reduction may be insufficient for alleviating SD-induced anxiety-like behaviors.


38540341|t|Effects of Paraquat, Dextran Sulfate Sodium, and Irradiation on Behavioral and Cognitive Performance and the Gut Microbiome in A53T and A53T-L444P Mice.
38540341|w|Ariel Chaklai; Abigail O'Neil; Shrey Goel; Nick Margolies; Destine Krenik; Ruby Perez; Kat Kessler; Elizabeth Staltontall; Hong Ki Eric Yoon; Montzerrat Pantoja; Keaton Stagaman; Kristin Kasschau; Vivek Unni; Robert Duvoisin; Thomas Sharpton; Jacob Raber
38540341|j|Genes
38540341|y|2024
38540341|a|Heterozygous carriers of the glucocerebrosidase 1 (GBA) L444P Gaucher mutation have an increased risk of developing Parkinson's disease (PD). The GBA mutations result in elevated alpha synuclein (aSyn) levels. Heterozygous mice carrying one allele with the L444P mutation knocked-into the mouse gene show increased aSyn levels and are more sensitive to motor deficits following exposure to the neurotoxin (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) MPTP than wild-type mice. Paraquat (PQ), a herbicide, increases PD risk in most studies. Its effects on the brain involve alterations in the gut microbiome. Exposure to dextran sulfate sodium (DSS), a mouse model of colitis, can be used to determine whether gut microbiome alterations are sufficient to induce PD-relevant phenotypes. We rederived the A53T-L444P and A53T mouse lines to assess whether PQ, PQ in combination with radiation exposure (IR), and DSS have differential effects in A53T and A53T-L444P mice and whether these effects are associated with alterations in the gut microbiome. PQ and PQ + IR have differential effects in A53T and A53T-L444P mice. In contrast, effects of DSS are only seen in A53T-L444P mice. Exposure and genotype modulate the relationship between the gut microbiome and behavioral performance. The gut microbiome may be an important mediator of how environmental exposures or genetic mutations yield behavioral and cognitive impacts.


37943628|t|Gut microbiota and child behavior in early puberty: does child sex play a role?
37943628|w|Yangwenshan Ou; Eline Rots; Clara Belzer; Hauke Smidt; Carolina de Weerth
37943628|j|Gut microbes
37943628|y|2023
37943628|a|A growing number of studies have indicated relations between the gut microbiota and mental health. However, to date, there is a scarcity of microbiota studies in community samples in early puberty. The current preregistered study (https://osf.io/wu2vt) investigated gut microbiota composition in relation to sex in low-risk children and explored behavioral associations with gut microbiota composition and metabolites in the same samples, together with the potential role of sex. Fecal microbiota composition was analyzed in 12-year-old children (<i>N</i> = 137) by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and quantitative PCR. Modest sex differences were observed in beta diversity. Generalized linear models showed consistent behavioral relations to both relative and absolute abundances of individual taxa, including positive associations between Parasutterella and mother-reported internalizing behavior, and negative associations between Odoribacter and mother-reported externalizing behavior. Additionally, Prevotella 9 was positively related to mother-reported externalizing behavior, confirming earlier findings on the same cohort at 5 years of age. Sex-related differences were found in behavioral relations to Ruminiclostridium 5, Alistipes, Streptococcus, Ruminiclostridium 9, Ruminococcaceae UCG-5, and Dialister, for relative abundances, as well as to Family XIII AD3011 group and an unidentified bacterium within the Tenericutes, for absolute abundances. Limited behavioral relations were observed regarding alpha diversity and fecal metabolites. Our findings describe links between the gut microbiota and child behavior, together with differences between child sexes in these relations, in low-risk early pubertal children. Importantly, this study confirmed earlier findings in this cohort of positive relations between Prevotella 9 and externalizing behavior at age 10 years. Results also show the merit of including absolute abundances in microbiota studies.


28610994|t|Manganese-induced sex-specific gut microbiome perturbations in C57BL/6 mice.
28610994|w|Liang Chi; Bei Gao; Xiaoming Bian; Pengcheng Tu; Hongyu Ru; Kun Lu
28610994|j|Toxicology and applied pharmacology
28610994|y|2017
28610994|a|Overexposure to manganese (Mn) leads to toxic effects, such as promoting the development of Parkinson's-like neurological disorders. The gut microbiome is deeply involved in immune development, host metabolism, and xenobiotics biotransformation, and significantly influences central nervous system (CNS) via the gut-brain axis, i.e. the biochemical signaling between the gastrointestinal tract and the CNS. However, it remains unclear whether Mn can affect the gut microbiome and its metabolic functions, particularly those linked to neurotoxicity. In addition, sex-specific effects of Mn have been reported, with no mechanism being identified yet. Recently, we have shown that the gut microbiome is largely different between males and females, raising the possibility that differential gut microbiome responses may contribute to sex-selective toxicity of Mn. Here, we applied high-throughput sequencing and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) metabolomics to explore how Mn<sup>2+</sup> exposure affects the gut microbiome and its metabolism in C57BL/6 mice. Mn<sup>2+</sup> exposure perturbed the gut bacterial compositions, functional genes and fecal metabolomes in a highly sex-specific manner. In particular, bacterial genes and/or key metabolites of neurotransmitter synthesis and pro-inflammatory mediators are significantly altered by Mn<sup>2+</sup> exposure, which can potentially affect chemical signaling of gut-brain interactions. Likewise, functional genes involved in iron homeostasis, flagellar motility, quorum sensing, and Mn transportation/oxidation are also widely changed by Mn<sup>2+</sup> exposure. Taken together, this study has demonstrated that Mn<sup>2+</sup> exposure perturbs the gut microbiome and its metabolic functions, which highlights the potential role of the gut microbiome in Mn<sup>2+</sup> toxicity, particularly its sex-specific toxic effects.


28806201|t|Brain-Gut-Microbiota Axis and Mental Health.
28806201|w|Timothy G Dinan; John F Cryan
28806201|j|Psychosomatic medicine
28806201|y|2017
28806201|a|The brain-gut-microbiota axis has been put forward as a new paradigm in neuroscience, which may be of relevance to mental illness. The mechanisms of signal transmission in the brain-gut-microbiota axis are complex and involve bidirectional communications that enable gut microbes to communicate with the brain and the brain to communicate with the microbes. This review assesses the potential usefulness and limitations of the paradigm. A selective literature review was conducted to evaluate the current knowledge in clinical and preclinical brain-gut-microbiota interactions as related to psychiatric disorders. Most published studies in the field are preclinical, and there is so far a lack of clinical studies. Preliminary studies in psychiatric populations support the view of a dysbiosis in some conditions, but studies are often small scale and marred by potential confounding variables. Preclinical studies support the view that psychobiotics ("bacteria which when ingested in adequate amounts have a positive mental health benefit") might be of use in treating some patients with mental health difficulties. To date, we have no well-conducted studies in clinical populations, although there are some studies in healthy volunteers. A cocktail of probiotics has been shown to alter brain activity as monitored by functional magnetic resonance imaging, and Bifidobacterium longum was reported to alter brain electrical activity. It has yet to be convincingly demonstrated that the exciting findings of psychobiotic efficacy demonstrated in preclinical models of psychiatric illness will translate to patients.


37836527|t|Change in Urinary Inflammatory Biomarkers and Psychological Health with Gut Microbiome Modulation after Six Months of a Lifestyle Modification Program in Children.
37836527|w|Md Saimul Islam; Shyanne Page-Hefley; Anne P Hernandez; Luke Whelchel; Chiquito Crasto; Whitney Viator; Treyce Money; Babafela Awosile; Noel Howard; Tetyana L Vasylyeva
37836527|j|Nutrients
37836527|y|2023
37836527|a|<b>Background:</b> Obesity is a metabolic disorder that negatively impacts the quality of life. Long-term methods such as exercise and low-fat diets can help regulate this health issue, but 93.3 million Americans continue to struggle. Our research investigates if lifestyle changes can affect urinary inflammation markers and psychological aspects through the modification of gut microbiome composition. <b>Methods:</b> Our study included 16 healthy controls with normal BMI as a comparison group and 22 overweight/obese (OW/OB) adolescents. We collected demographic, clinical, psychological, stool, and urine sample data at enrollment and six months after implementing lifestyle modifications. Bacterial genomic data and inflammatory markers in these samples were analyzed. <b>Results:</b> The lifestyle interventions were associated with decreased inflammation and enhanced mental health among overweight teens. We observed differences in bacterial community compositions between healthy participants and those who underwent treatment, including exercise and dietary habit adjustments, although there was no significant change in bacterial species richness. Mental health correlated with gut microbiota compositions without any demographic influences. The research also uncovered connections between inflammatory markers, psychological factors, and gut microbiota phyla through carbohydrate metabolism alterations. <b>Conclusion</b>: Our findings demonstrate that lifestyle modifications are associated with improved mental health and a reduction in inflammation in overweight adolescents by adjusting the gut microbiota composition.


37777156|t|Metaorganismal choline metabolism shapes olfactory perception.
37777156|w|William J Massey; Kristen E Kay; Thomas C Jaramillo; Anthony J Horak; Shijie Cao; Lucas J Osborn; Rakhee Banerjee; Marko Mrdjen; Michael K Hamoudi; Daniel J Silver; Amy C Burrows; Amanda L Brown; Ofer Reizes; Justin D Lathia; Zeneng Wang; Stanley L Hazen; J Mark Brown
37777156|j|The Journal of biological chemistry
37777156|y|2023
37777156|a|Microbes living in the intestine can regulate key signaling processes in the central nervous system that directly impact brain health. This gut-brain signaling axis is partially mediated by microbe-host-dependent immune regulation, gut-innervating neuronal communication, and endocrine-like small molecule metabolites that originate from bacteria to ultimately cross the blood-brain barrier. Given the mounting evidence of gut-brain crosstalk, a new therapeutic approach of "psychobiotics" has emerged, whereby strategies designed to primarily modify the gut microbiome have been shown to improve mental health or slow neurodegenerative diseases. Diet is one of the most powerful determinants of gut microbiome community structure, and dietary habits are associated with brain health and disease. Recently, the metaorganismal (i.e., diet-microbe-host) trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) pathway has been linked to the development of several brain diseases including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and ischemic stroke. However, it is poorly understood how metaorganismal TMAO production influences brain function under normal physiological conditions. To address this, here we have reduced TMAO levels by inhibiting gut microbe-driven choline conversion to trimethylamine (TMA), and then performed comprehensive behavioral phenotyping in mice. Unexpectedly, we find that TMAO is particularly enriched in the murine olfactory bulb, and when TMAO production is blunted at the level of bacterial choline TMA lyase (CutC/D), olfactory perception is altered. Taken together, our studies demonstrate a previously underappreciated role for the TMAO pathway in olfactory-related behaviors.


38488556|t|Unraveling the gut-brain axis: the impact of steroid hormones and nutrition on Parkinson's disease.
38488556|w|Paula Maria Neufeld; Ralf A Nettersheim; Veronika Matschke; Matthias Vorgerd; Sarah Stahlke; Carsten Theiss
38488556|j|Neural regeneration research
38488556|y|2024
38488556|a|This comprehensive review explores the intricate relationship between nutrition, the gut microbiome, steroid hormones, and Parkinson's disease within the context of the gut-brain axis. The gut-brain axis plays a pivotal role in neurodegenerative diseases like Parkinson's disease, encompassing diverse components such as the gut microbiota, immune system, metabolism, and neural pathways. The gut microbiome, profoundly influenced by dietary factors, emerges as a key player. Nutrition during the first 1000 days of life shapes the gut microbiota composition, influencing immune responses and impacting both child development and adult health. High-fat, high-sugar diets can disrupt this delicate balance, contributing to inflammation and immune dysfunction. Exploring nutritional strategies, the Mediterranean diet's anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties show promise in reducing Parkinson's disease risk. Microbiome-targeted dietary approaches and the ketogenic diet hold the potential in improving brain disorders. Beyond nutrition, emerging research uncovers potential interactions between steroid hormones, nutrition, and Parkinson's disease. Progesterone, with its anti-inflammatory properties and presence in the nervous system, offers a novel option for Parkinson's disease therapy. Its ability to enhance neuroprotection within the enteric nervous system presents exciting prospects. The review addresses the hypothesis that α-synuclein aggregates originate from the gut and may enter the brain via the vagus nerve. Gastrointestinal symptoms preceding motor symptoms support this hypothesis. Dysfunctional gut-brain signaling during gut dysbiosis contributes to inflammation and neurotransmitter imbalances, emphasizing the potential of microbiota-based interventions. In summary, this review uncovers the complex web of interactions between nutrition, the gut microbiome, steroid hormones, and Parkinson's disease within the gut-brain axis framework. Understanding these connections not only offers novel therapeutic insights but also illuminates the origins of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease.


37604976|t|Transmission of Alzheimer's disease-associated microbiota dysbiosis and its impact on cognitive function: evidence from mice and patients.
37604976|w|Yiying Zhang; Yuan Shen; Ning Liufu; Ling Liu; Wei Li; Zhongyong Shi; Hailin Zheng; Xinchun Mei; Chih-Yu Chen; Zengliang Jiang; Shabnamsadat Abtahi; Yuanlin Dong; Feng Liang; Yujiang Shi; Leo L Cheng; Guang Yang; Jing X Kang; Jeremy E Wilkinson; Zhongcong Xie
37604976|j|Molecular psychiatry
37604976|y|2023
37604976|a|Spouses of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients are at a higher risk of developing incidental dementia. However, the causes and underlying mechanism of this clinical observation remain largely unknown. One possible explanation is linked to microbiota dysbiosis, a condition that has been associated with AD. However, it remains unclear whether gut microbiota dysbiosis can be transmitted from AD individuals to non-AD individuals and contribute to the development of AD pathogenesis and cognitive impairment. We, therefore, set out to perform both animal studies and clinical investigation by co-housing wild-type mice and AD transgenic mice, analyzing microbiota via 16S rRNA gene sequencing, measuring short-chain fatty acid amounts, and employing behavioral test, mass spectrometry, site-mutations and other methods. The present study revealed that co-housing between wild-type mice and AD transgenic mice or administrating feces of AD transgenic mice to wild-type mice resulted in AD-associated gut microbiota dysbiosis, Tau phosphorylation, and cognitive impairment in the wild-type mice. Gavage with Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium restored these changes in the wild-type mice. The oral and gut microbiota of AD patient partners resembled that of AD patients but differed from healthy controls, indicating the transmission of microbiota. The underlying mechanism of these findings includes that the butyric acid-mediated acetylation of GSK3β at lysine 15 regulated its phosphorylation at serine 9, consequently impacting Tau phosphorylation. Pending confirmative studies, these results provide insight into a potential link between the transmission of AD-associated microbiota dysbiosis and development of cognitive impairment, which underscore the need for further research in this area.


34650532|t|Cross-Sectional Study on the Gut Microbiome of Parkinson's Disease Patients in Central China.
34650532|w|Liangwei Mao; Yu Zhang; Jing Tian; Ming Sang; Guimin Zhang; Yuling Zhou; Puqing Wang
34650532|j|Frontiers in microbiology
34650532|y|2021
34650532|a|Gastrointestinal dysfunction plays an important role in the occurrence and development of Parkinson's disease (PD). This study investigates the composition of the gut microbiome using shotgun metagenomic sequencing in PD patients in central China. Fecal samples from 39 PD patients (PD group) and the corresponding 39 healthy spouses of the patients (SP) were collected for shotgun metagenomics sequencing. Results showed a significantly altered microbial composition in the PD patients. <i>Bilophila wadsworthia</i> enrichment was found in the gut microbiome of PD patients, which has not been reported in previous studies. The random forest (RF) model, which identifies differences in microbiomes, reliably discriminated patients with PD from controls; the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.803. Further analysis of the microbiome and clinical symptoms showed that <i>Klebsiella</i> and <i>Parasutterella</i> were positively correlated with the duration and severity of PD, whereas hydrogen-generating <i>Prevotella</i> was negatively correlated with disease severity. The Cluster of Orthologous Groups of protein database, the KEGG Orthology database, and the carbohydrate-active enzymes of gene-category analysis showed that branched-chain amino acid-related proteins were significantly increased, and GH43 was significantly reduced in the PD group. Functional analysis of the metagenome confirmed differences in microbiome metabolism in the PD group related to short-chain fatty acid precursor metabolism.


30838027|t|Current Understanding of Gut Microbiota in Mood Disorders: An Update of Human Studies.
30838027|w|Ting-Ting Huang; Jian-Bo Lai; Yan-Li Du; Yi Xu; Lie-Min Ruan; Shao-Hua Hu
30838027|j|Frontiers in genetics
30838027|y|2019
30838027|a|Gut microbiota plays an important role in the bidirectional communication between the gut and the central nervous system. Mounting evidence suggests that gut microbiota can influence the brain function via neuroimmune and neuroendocrine pathways as well as the nervous system. Advances in gene sequencing techniques further facilitate investigating the underlying relationship between gut microbiota and psychiatric disorders. In recent years, researchers have preliminarily explored the gut microbiota in patients with mood disorders. The current review aims to summarize the published human studies of gut microbiota in mood disorders. The findings showed that microbial diversity and taxonomic compositions were significantly changed compared with healthy individuals. Most of these findings revealed that short-chain fatty acids-producing bacterial genera were decreased, while pro-inflammatory genera and those involved in lipid metabolism were increased in patients with depressive episodes. Interestingly, the abundance of <i>Actinobacteria</i>, <i>Enterobacteriaceae</i> was increased and <i>Faecalibacterium</i> was decreased consistently in patients with either bipolar disorder or major depressive disorder. Some studies further indicated that specific bacteria were associated with clinical characteristics, inflammatory profiles, metabolic markers, and pharmacological treatment. These studies present preliminary evidence of the important role of gut microbiota in mood disorders, through the brain-gut-microbiota axis, which emerges as a promising target for disease diagnosis and therapeutic interventions in the future.


35708472|t|Neuroinflammation: A Distal Consequence of Periodontitis.
35708472|w|X Li; M Kiprowska; T Kansara; P Kansara; P Li
35708472|j|Journal of dental research
35708472|y|2022
35708472|a|Periodontitis, a chronic, inflammatory disease, induces systemic inflammation and contributes to the development of neurodegenerative diseases. The precise etiology of the most common neurodegenerative disorders, such as sporadic Alzheimer's, Parkinson's diseases and multiple sclerosis (AD, PD, and MS, respectively), remains to be revealed. Chronic neuroinflammation is a well-recognized component of these disorders, and evidence suggests that systemic inflammation is a possible stimulus for neuroinflammation development. Systemic inflammation can lead to deleterious consequences on the brain if the inflammation is sufficiently severe or if the brain shows vulnerabilities due to genetic predisposition, aging, or neurodegenerative diseases. It has been proposed that periodontal disease can initiate or contribute to the AD pathogenesis through multiple pathways, including key periodontal pathogens. Dysbiotic oral bacteria can release bacterial products into the bloodstream and eventually cross the brain-blood barrier; these bacteria can also cause alterations to gut microbiota that enhance inflammation and potentially affect brain function via the gut-brain axis. The trigeminal nerve has been suggested as another route for connecting oral bacterial products to the brain. PD and MS are often preceded by gastrointestinal symptoms or aberrant gut microbiome composition, and alterations in the enteric nervous system accompany the disease. Clinical evidence has suggested that patients with periodontitis are at a higher risk of developing PD and MS. This nexus among the brain, periodontal disease, and systemic inflammation heralds new ways in which microglial cells, the main innate immune cells, and astrocytes, the crucial regulators of innate and adaptive immune responses in the brain, contribute to brain pathology. Currently, the lack of understanding of the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration is hindering treatment development. However, we may prevent this pathogenesis by tackling one of its possible contributors (periodontitis) for systemic inflammation through simple preventive oral hygiene measures.


38562309|t|Hospital-treated infections and subsequent Parkinson's disease risk: a register-based sibling comparison study.
38562309|w|Snieguole Vingeliene; Ayako Hiyoshi; Marleen A H Lentjes; Robert J Brummer; Katja Fall; Scott Montgomery
38562309|j|Brain communications
38562309|y|2024
38562309|a|Serious infections may result in greater risk of Parkinson's disease. However, high-quality cohort studies focusing on a potential causal role of different types and sites of infection are lacking. Gastrointestinal infections are of a particular interest due to growing evidence implicating gut dysbiosis in Parkinson's disease aetiology. This population-based cohort study used the Swedish Total Population Register to identify individuals born during 1944-77 and resident in Sweden between 1990 and 2018 (<i>N</i> = 3 698 319). Hospital-treated infections at ages 21-30 and 31-40 years were identified from the National Patient Register. Participants were followed to identify Parkinson's disease diagnoses from age 41 years up to December 31, 2018, when the oldest individual reached 75 years. Cox regression with a sibling comparison design to tackle familial genetic and environmental confounding was used to derive hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals for each infection site, type, or any infections at ages 21-30 and 31-40 years. During a median follow-up of 15.4 years, 8815 unique Parkinson's disease diagnoses were accrued, with a crude rate of 17.3 (95% confidence interval 17.0, 17.7) per 100 000 person-years. After controlling for shared familial factors, hospital-treated gastrointestinal and respiratory infections between 21 and 30 years of age were associated with a greater risk of Parkinson's disease [hazard ratios 1.35 (95% confidence interval: 1.05, 1.75) and 1.45 (95% confidence interval: 1.08, 1.95), respectively]; no association was found for any infections at age 31-40 [hazard ratio 1.05 (95% confidence interval: 0.93, 1.19)]. After adjustment, no statistically significant associations were observed for other sites including genitourinary and skin. These findings suggest that hospital-treated infections of the gastrointestinal tract and lungs, both of which may have an influence on the gut microbiome, by age 30 years may be risk factors for Parkinson's disease.


37088645|t|Understanding the impact of radical changes in diet and the gut microbiota on brain function and structure: rationale and design of the EMBRACE study.
37088645|w|Tair Ben-Porat; Angela Alberga; Marie-Claude Audet; Sylvie Belleville; Tamara R Cohen; Pierre Y Garneau; Kim L Lavoie; Patrick Marion; Samira Mellah; Radu Pescarus; Elham Rahme; Sylvia Santosa; Anne-Sophie Studer; Dajana Vuckovic; Robbie Woods; Reyhaneh Yousefi; Simon L Bacon
37088645|j|Surgery for obesity and related diseases : official journal of the American Society for Bariatric Surgery
37088645|y|2023
37088645|a|Bariatric surgery leads to profound changes in gut microbiota and dietary patterns, both of which may interact to impact gut-brain communication. Though cognitive function improves postsurgery, there is a large variability in outcomes. How bariatric surgery-induced modifications in the gut microbiota and dietary patterns influence the variability in cognitive function is still unclear. To elucidate the associations between bariatric surgery-induced changes in dietary and gut microbiota patterns with cognition and brain structure. University hospital. A total of 120 adult patients (≥30 years) scheduled to undergo a primary bariatric surgery along with 60 age-, sex-, and body mass index-matched patients on the surgery waitlist will undergo assessments 3-months presurgery and 6- and 12-month postsurgery (or an equivalent time for the waitlist group). Additionally, 60 age-and sex-matched nonbariatric surgery eligible individuals will complete the presurgical assessments only. Evaluations will include sociodemographic and health behavior questionnaires, physiological assessments (anthropometrics, blood-, urine-, and fecal-based measures), neuropsychological cognitive tests, and structural magnetic resonance imaging. Cluster analyses of the dietary and gut microbiota changes will define the various dietary patterns and microbiota profiles, then using repeated measures mixed models, their associations with global cognitive and structural brain alterations will be explored. The coordinating study site (Centre intégré universitaire de santé et de services sociaux du Nord-de-l'Île-de-Montréal, QC, Canada), provided the primary ethical approval (Research Ethics Board#: MP-32-2022-2412). The insights generated from this study can be used to develop individually-targeted neurodegenerative disease prevention strategies, as well as providing critical mechanistic information.


34576191|t|The Role of Gut Microbiota and Gut-Brain Interplay in Selected Diseases of the Central Nervous System.
34576191|w|Julia Doroszkiewicz; Magdalena Groblewska; Barbara Mroczko
34576191|j|International journal of molecular sciences
34576191|y|2021
34576191|a|The gut microbiome has attracted increasing attention from researchers in recent years. The microbiota can have a specific and complex cross-talk with the host, particularly with the central nervous system (CNS), creating the so-called "gut-brain axis". Communication between the gut, intestinal microbiota, and the brain involves the secretion of various metabolites such as short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), structural components of bacteria, and signaling molecules. Moreover, an imbalance in the gut microbiota composition modulates the immune system and function of tissue barriers such as the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Therefore, the aim of this literature review is to describe how the gut-brain interplay may contribute to the development of various neurological disorders, combining the fields of gastroenterology and neuroscience. We present recent findings concerning the effect of the altered microbiota on neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, as well as multiple sclerosis. Moreover, the impact of the pathological shift in the microbiome on selected neuropsychological disorders, i.e., major depressive disorders (MDD) and autism spectrum disorder (ASD), is also discussed. Future research on the effect of balanced gut microbiota composition on the gut-brain axis would help to identify new potential opportunities for therapeutic interventions in the presented diseases.


33517890|t|Gut microbiota-derived propionate mediates the neuroprotective effect of osteocalcin in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease.
33517890|w|Yan-Fang Hou; Chang Shan; Si-Yue Zhuang; Qian-Qian Zhuang; Arijit Ghosh; Ke-Cheng Zhu; Xiao-Ke Kong; Shu-Min Wang; Yan-Ling Gong; Yu-Ying Yang; Bei Tao; Li-Hao Sun; Hong-Yan Zhao; Xing-Zhi Guo; Wei-Qing Wang; Guang Ning; Yan-Yun Gu; Sheng-Tian Li; Jian-Min Liu
33517890|j|Microbiome
33517890|y|2021
33517890|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with no absolute cure. The evidence of the involvement of gut microbiota in PD pathogenesis suggests the need to identify certain molecule(s) derived from the gut microbiota, which has the potential to manage PD. Osteocalcin (OCN), an osteoblast-secreted protein, has been shown to modulate brain function. Thus, it is of interest to investigate whether OCN could exert protective effect on PD and, if yes, whether the underlying mechanism lies in the subsequent changes in gut microbiota. The intraperitoneal injection of OCN can effectively ameliorate the motor deficits and dopaminergic neuronal loss in a 6-hydroxydopamine-induced PD mouse model. The further antibiotics treatment and fecal microbiota transplantation experiments confirmed that the gut microbiota was required for OCN-induced protection in PD mice. OCN elevated Bacteroidetes and depleted Firmicutes phyla in the gut microbiota of PD mice with elevated potential of microbial propionate production and was confirmed by fecal propionate levels. Two months of orally administered propionate successfully rescued motor deficits and dopaminergic neuronal loss in PD mice. Furthermore, AR420626, the agonist of FFAR3, which is the receptor of propionate, mimicked the neuroprotective effects of propionate and the ablation of enteric neurons blocked the prevention of dopaminergic neuronal loss by propionate in PD mice. Together, our results demonstrate that OCN ameliorates motor deficits and dopaminergic neuronal loss in PD mice, modulating gut microbiome and increasing propionate level might be an underlying mechanism responsible for the neuroprotective effects of OCN on PD, and the FFAR3, expressed in enteric nervous system, might be the main action site of propionate. Video abstract.


30680947|t|Abnormal composition of gut microbiota contributes to delirium-like behaviors after abdominal surgery in mice.
30680947|w|Jie Zhang; Jiang-Jiang Bi; Guo-Jun Guo; Ling Yang; Bin Zhu; Gao-Feng Zhan; Shan Li; Nian-Nian Huang; Kenji Hashimoto; Chun Yang; Ai-Lin Luo
30680947|j|CNS neuroscience & therapeutics
30680947|y|2019
30680947|a|Anesthesia and surgery can cause delirium-like symptoms postoperatively. Increasing evidence suggests that gut microbiota is a physiological regulator of the brain. Herein, we investigated whether gut microbiota plays a role in postoperative delirium (POD). Mice were separated into non-POD and POD phenotypes after abdominal surgery by applying hierarchical clustering analysis to behavioral tests. Fecal samples were collected, and 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing was performed to detect differences in gut microbiota composition among sham, non-POD, and POD mice. Fecal bacteria from non-POD and POD mice were transplanted into antibiotics-induced pseudo-germ-free mice to investigate the effects on behaviors. α-diversity and β-diversity indicated differences in gut microbiota composition between the non-POD and POD mice. At the phylum level, the non-POD mice had significantly higher levels of Tenericutes, which were not detected in the POD mice. At the class level, levels of Gammaproteobacteria were higher in the POD mice, whereas the non-POD mice had significantly higher levels of Mollicutes, which were not detected in the POD mice. A total of 20 gut bacteria differed significantly between the POD and non-POD mice. Interestingly, the pseudo-germ-free mice showed abnormal behaviors prior to transplant. The pseudo-germ-free mice that received fecal bacteria transplants from non-POD mice but not from POD mice showed improvements in behaviors. Abnormal gut microbiota composition after abdominal surgery may contribute to the development of POD. A therapeutic strategy that targets gut microbiota could provide a novel alterative for POD treatment.


33497754|t|Gut microbiota alteration and modulation in psychiatric disorders: Current evidence on fecal microbiota transplantation.
33497754|w|Carlo Romano Settanni; Gianluca Ianiro; Stefano Bibbò; Giovanni Cammarota; Antonio Gasbarrini
33497754|j|Progress in neuro-psychopharmacology & biological psychiatry
33497754|y|2021
33497754|a|The micro-organisms residing within the gastrointestinal tract, namely gut microbiota, form a dynamic population proper of each individual, mostly composed by bacteria which co-evolved symbiotically with human species. The advances of culture-independent techniques allowed the understanding of the multiple functions of the gut microbiota in human physiology and disease, the latter often recognising a predisposing condition in an imbalanced intestinal microbial ecosystem (dysbiosis). A complex mutual interconnection between the central nervous system (CNS), the intestine and the gut microbiota, known as "microbiota-gut-brain axis", has been hypothesized to play a pivotal role in maintaining central and peripheral functions, as well as mental health. Thus, dysbiosis with specific microbiota imbalances seems to be strongly associated with the onset psychiatric disorders by altering neurodevelopment, enhancing neurodegeneration, affecting behaviour and mood. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) consists of transferring the fecal matter from a donor into the gastrointestinal tract of a recipient, and it is used to quickly modulate the gut microbiota. This review focuses on the uses of FMT in psychiatric disorders. FMT has been used to induce dysbiosis and to study the disease development, or to heal dysbiosis-related mental disorders. Overall, FMT of impaired microbiota resulted effective in enhancing psychiatric-like disturbances (mainly depression and anxiety) in recipient animals, plausibly by impairing immune system, inflammatory and metabolic pathways, neurochemical processes and neuro-transmission. On the other side, preclinical and clinical data suggest that reversing or mitigating dysbiosis seems a promising strategy to restore behavioural impairments or to obtain psychiatric symptom relief. However, current evidence is limited by the lack of procedural standardization, the paucity of human studies in the vastity of psychiatric conditions and the need of a microbiota-targeted donor-recipient matching.


35181072|t|Psychobiotics, gut microbiota and fermented foods can help preserving mental health.
35181072|w|Melania Casertano; Vincenzo Fogliano; Danilo Ercolini
35181072|j|Food research international (Ottawa, Ont.)
35181072|y|2022
35181072|a|Psychobiotics include a novel class of probiotic microorganisms that convey benefit upon the host's mental health via the dynamic microbiota-gut-brain crosstalk. Research is bolstering the concept that gut bacteria are involved in the transmission of information between the gut and the brain, engaging neural, immune, and endocrine pathways. Factors such as diet, stress and aging can shape the microbiota composition in a process that may also influence the onset and development of mental diseases. This review aims to provide an outline of the link between the microbiota and brain function focusing on preclinical and clinical evidence of the potential application of psychobiotics in the context of the cognitive process and performance. The occurrence of metabolic precursors of neurotransmitters in foods that can be converted by the gut microbiota and play a role in the gut-brain axis is discussed. The understanding of the molecular mechanisms by which communication occurs is still at its infancy; however clinical studies have shown that dietary interventions based on psychobiotics might be a novel nutritional approach targeting gut microbiota for managing cognitive performance and preventing memory decline across the lifespan.


37879416|t|Depression-like phenotypes in mice with hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury: A role of gut-microbiota-liver-brain axis via vagus nerve.
37879416|w|Yong Yang; Akifumi Eguchi; Xiayun Wan; Chisato Mori; Kenji Hashimoto
37879416|j|Journal of affective disorders
37879416|y|2024
37879416|a|Depression is a frequent symptom in patients with chronic liver disease; however, the mechanisms underlying this association remain unclear. Dysbiosis of gut microbiota plays a critical role in depression through the gut-brain axis via the vagus nerve. In this study, we investigated whether the gut-microbiota-liver-brain axis plays a role in depression-like phenotypes in mice with hepatic ischemia/reperfusion (HI/R) injury via the vagus nerve. Behavioral tests for depression-like behaviors were performed 7 days after sham or HI/R injury surgery. Mice with HI/R injury exhibited splenomegaly, systemic inflammation, depression-like behaviors, reduced expression of synaptic proteins in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), abnormal composition of gut microbiota, and altered blood metabolites and lipids. Furthermore, there were positive or negative correlations between the relative abundance of microbiome and behavioral data or blood metabolites (or lipids). Moreover, subdiaphragmatic vagotomy significantly blocked these changes in mice with HI/R injury. Notably, depression-like phenotypes in mice with HI/R injury were ameliorated after subsequent single injection of the new antidepressant arketamine. The current findings suggest that HI/R injury induces depression-like phenotypes in mice through the gut-microbiota-liver-brain axis via the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerve. Furthermore, arketamine may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of depression in patients with chronic liver disease.


32398374|t|Maternal glyphosate exposure causes autism-like behaviors in offspring through increased expression of soluble epoxide hydrolase.
32398374|w|Yaoyu Pu; Jun Yang; Lijia Chang; Youge Qu; Siming Wang; Kai Zhang; Zhongwei Xiong; Jiancheng Zhang; Yunfei Tan; Xingming Wang; Yuko Fujita; Tamaki Ishima; Debin Wang; Sung Hee Hwang; Bruce D Hammock; Kenji Hashimoto
32398374|j|Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
32398374|y|2020
32398374|a|Epidemiological studies suggest that exposure to herbicides during pregnancy might increase risk for autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in offspring. However, the precise mechanisms underlying the risk of ASD by herbicides such as glyphosate remain unclear. Soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) in the metabolism of polyunsaturated fatty acids is shown to play a key role in the development of ASD in offspring after maternal immune activation. Here, we found ASD-like behavioral abnormalities in juvenile offspring after maternal exposure to high levels of formulated glyphosate. Furthermore, we found higher levels of sEH in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus, and striatum of juvenile offspring, and oxylipin analysis showed decreased levels of epoxy-fatty acids such as 8 (9)-EpETrE in the blood, PFC, hippocampus, and striatum of juvenile offspring after maternal glyphosate exposure, supporting increased activity of sEH in the offspring. Moreover, we found abnormal composition of gut microbiota and short-chain fatty acids in fecal samples of juvenile offspring after maternal glyphosate exposure. Interestingly, oral administration of TPPU (an sEH inhibitor) to pregnant mothers from E5 to P21 prevented ASD-like behaviors such as social interaction deficits and increased grooming time in the juvenile offspring after maternal glyphosate exposure. These findings suggest that maternal exposure to high levels of glyphosate causes ASD-like behavioral abnormalities and abnormal composition of gut microbiota in juvenile offspring, and that increased activity of sEH might play a role in ASD-like behaviors in offspring after maternal glyphosate exposure. Therefore, sEH may represent a target for ASD in offspring after maternal stress from occupational exposure to contaminants.


32763534|t|Analysis of the diversity of intestinal microbiome and its potential value as a biomarker in patients with schizophrenia: A cohort study.
32763534|w|Rubing Pan; Xulai Zhang; Jiaqi Gao; Weizhuo Yi; Qiannan Wei; Hong Su
32763534|j|Psychiatry research
32763534|y|2020
32763534|a|Exploring the gut microbiota characteristics of patients with acute and remission schizophrenia (SCZ) and evaluating the potential of the gut microbiome as a non-invasive biomarker for SCZ. A total of 87 fecal samples were collected, including a total of 58 samples from 29 SCZ patients over two different periods (remission and onset period) and 29 samples from the control group for 16S rRNA Miseq.The changes of intestinal microbiota in SCZ patients from remission to onset were analyzed, and a random forest model was constructed to recognize biomarkers. The optimal three genus-level diagnosis biomarkers were identified through an AUC validation on a random forest model, furthermore, an AUC of 0.76 (95% CI (0.63, 0.89)) was achieved between 29 aSCZ and 29 HCs. Compared with the control group, the first 11 OUT-level' biomarkers were identified in rSCZ group. As a status marker of the disease, the AUC of 0.7 (95% CI (0.56, 0.84)) was achieved between 29 rSCZ and 29 HCs. There were differences between SCZ patients and HCs, acute and remission patients as well, suggesting that the potential of the gut microbiota as a non-invasive diagnostic tool. Moreover, the features of the gut microbiome of SCZ provide clues for disease prognosis assessment and targeted intervention.


38650872|t|The emerging roles of microbiota-derived extracellular vesicles in psychiatric disorders.
38650872|w|Chuang Guo; Yulong Bai; Pengfei Li; Kuanjun He
38650872|j|Frontiers in microbiology
38650872|y|2024
38650872|a|Major depressive disorder, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder are three major psychiatric disorders that significantly impact the well-being and overall health of patients. Some researches indicate that abnormalities in the gut microbiota can trigger certain psychiatric diseases. Microbiota-derived extracellular vesicles have the ability to transfer bioactive compounds into host cells, altering signaling and biological processes, ultimately influencing the mental health and illness of the host. This review aims to investigate the emerging roles of microbiota-derived extracellular vesicles in these three major psychiatric disorders and discusses their roles as diagnostic biomarkers and therapies for these psychiatric disorders.


34690981|t|The Microbiome-Gut-Brain Axis, a Potential Therapeutic Target for Substance-Related Disorders.
34690981|w|Xuan Fu; Ti Chen; Jingda Cai; Bo Liu; Yaohui Zeng; Xiaojie Zhang
34690981|j|Frontiers in microbiology
34690981|y|2021
34690981|a|Substance addiction is a complex worldwide public health problem. It endangers both personal life and social stability, causing great loss on economy. Substance-related disorder is considered to be a complicated chronic brain disorder. It resulted from interactions among pharmacological properties of addictive substances, individual susceptibility, and social-environmental factors. Unfortunately, there is still no ideal treatment for this disorder. Recent lines of evidence suggest that gut microbiome may play an important role in the pathogenesis of neuropsychiatric disorders, including substance-related disorders. This review summarizes the research on the relationship between gut microbiome and substance-related disorders, including different types of substance, different individual susceptibility, and the occurrence and development of substance-induced mental disorders. We also discuss the potentiation of gut microbiome in the treatment of substance-related disorders, especially in the treatment of substance-induced mental disorders and manipulation on individuals' responsiveness to addictive substances.


30466372|t|An intermittent hypercaloric diet alters gut microbiota, prefrontal cortical gene expression and social behaviours in rats.
30466372|w|Amy C Reichelt; Amy Loughman; Ashton Bernard; Mukesh Raipuria; Kirsten N Abbott; James Dachtler; Thi Thu Hao Van; Robert J Moore
30466372|j|Nutritional neuroscience
30466372|y|2020
30466372|a|<b>Objectives:</b> Excessive consumption of high fat and high sugar (HFHS) diets alters reward processing, behaviour, and changes gut microbiota profiles. Previous studies in gnotobiotic mice also provide evidence that these gut microorganisms may influence social behaviour. To further investigate these interactions, we examined the impact of the intermittent access to a HFHS diet on social behaviour, gene expression and microbiota composition in adolescent rats. <b>Methods:</b> Male rats were permitted intermittent daily access (2 h / day) to a palatable HFHS chow diet for 28 days across adolescence. Social interaction, social memory and novel object recognition were assessed during this period. Following testing, RT-PCR was conducted on hippocampal and prefrontal cortex (PFC) samples. 16S ribosomal RNA amplicon sequencing was used for identification and relative quantification of bacterial taxa in faecal samples. <b>Results:</b> We observed reduced social interaction behaviours, impaired social memory and novel object recognition in HFHS diet rats compared to chow controls. RT-PCR revealed reduced levels of monoamine oxidase A (<i>Maoa</i>), catechol-O-methyltransferase (<i>Comt</i>) and brain derived neurotrophic factor (<i>Bdnf</i>) mRNA in the PFC of HFHS diet rats. Faecal microbiota analysis demonstrated that the relative abundance of a number of specific bacterial taxa differed significantly between the two diet groups, in particular, <i>Lachnospiraceae</i> and <i>Ruminoccoceae</i> bacteria. <b>Discussion:</b> Intermittent HFHS diet consumption evoked physiological changes to the brain, particularly expression of mRNA associated with reward and neuroplasticity, and gut microbiome. These changes may underpin the observed alterations to social behaviours.


30523432|t|Obesity and mental health improvement following nutritional education focusing on gut microbiota composition in Japanese women: a randomised controlled trial.
30523432|w|Mayu Uemura; Fumikazu Hayashi; Ken Ishioka; Kunio Ihara; Kazushi Yasuda; Kanako Okazaki; Junichi Omata; Tatsuo Suzutani; Yoshihisa Hirakawa; Chifa Chiang; Atsuko Aoyama; Tetsuya Ohira
30523432|j|European journal of nutrition
30523432|y|2019
30523432|a|Gut microbiota composition was supposedly related to obesity and psychological factors. We examined the effects of a nutritional education intervention focusing on gut microbiota composition on obesity and psychological factors among obese women. Forty-four obese Japanese women aged 40 or older were randomly assigned to either an intervention group (n = 22) or control group (n = 22). The intervention consisted of a 20-min dietary lecture and a 10-min counselling session by registered dieticians, every 2 weeks for eight consecutive weeks. Body weight, height, waist circumference, food frequency, and gut microbiota composition were measured, and self-rated health and psychological factors were scored before and after the intervention. All participants completed the 8 week program. After the intervention, dietary fibre intake (p < 0.01), frequency of vegetable consumption (p = 0.020), and frequency of milk and milk product consumption (p < 0.01) increased significantly in the intervention group compared with the control group. Body weight and body mass index (BMI; p < 0.001), waist circumference (p < 0.01), and the depression scale score (p < 0.01) decreased significantly, while significant improvements were found in self-rated health (p = 0.045) and microbiome diversity (p < 0.01). Nutritional education focusing on gut microbiota composition may improve obesity and psychological factors in obese women.


29802603|t|Gut, Microbiome, and Brain Regulatory Axis: Relevance to Neurodegenerative and Psychiatric Disorders.
29802603|w|G B Stefano; N Pilonis; R Ptacek; J Raboch; M Vnukova; R M Kream
29802603|j|Cellular and molecular neurobiology
29802603|y|2018
29802603|a|It has become apparent that the molecular and biochemical integrity of interactive families, genera, and species of human gut microflora is critically linked to maintaining complex metabolic and behavioral processes mediated by peripheral organ systems and central nervous system neuronal groupings. Relatively recent studies have established intrinsic ratios of enterotypes contained within the human microbiome across demographic subpopulations and have empirically linked significant alterations in the expression of bacterial enterotypes with the initiation and persistence of several major metabolic and psychiatric disorders. Accordingly, the goal of our review is to highlight potential thematic/functional linkages of pathophysiological alterations in gut microbiota and bidirectional gut-brain signaling pathways with special emphasis on the potential roles of gut dysbiosis on the pathophysiology of psychiatric illnesses. We provide critical discussion of putative thematic linkages of Parkinson's disease (PD) data sets to similar pathophysiological events as potential causative factors in the development and persistence of diverse psychiatric illnesses. Finally, we include a concise review of preclinical paradigms that involve immunologically-induced GI deficits and dysbiosis of maternal microflora that are functionally linked to impaired neurodevelopmental processes leading to affective behavioral syndromes in the offspring.


31628992|t|Exercise, diet and stress as modulators of gut microbiota: Implications for neurodegenerative diseases.
31628992|w|Carolina Gubert; Geraldine Kong; Thibault Renoir; Anthony J Hannan
31628992|j|Neurobiology of disease
31628992|y|2020
31628992|a|The last decade has witnessed an exponentially growing interest in gut microbiota and the gut-brain axis in health and disease. Accumulating evidence from preclinical and clinical research indicate that gut microbiota, and their associated microbiomes, may influence pathogenic processes and thus the onset and progression of various diseases, including neurological and psychiatric disorders. In fact, gut dysbiosis (microbiota dysregulation) has been associated with a range of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's and motor neuron disease, as well as multiple sclerosis. The gut microbiota constitutes a dynamic microbial system constantly challenged by many biological variables, including environmental factors. Since the gut microbiota constitute a changeable and experience-dependent ecosystem, they provide potential therapeutic targets that can be modulated as new interventions for dysbiosis-related disorders, including neurodegenerative diseases. This article reviews the evidence for environmental modulation of gut microbiota and its relevance to brain disorders, exploring in particular the implications for neurodegenerative diseases. We will focus on three major environmental factors that are known to influence the onset and progression of those diseases, namely exercise, diet and stress. Further exploration of environmental modulation, acting via both peripheral (e.g. gut microbiota and associated metabolic dysfunction or 'metabolopathy') and central (e.g. direct effects on CNS neurons and glia) mechanisms, may lead to the development of novel therapeutic approaches, such as enviromimetics, for a wide range of neurological and psychiatric disorders.


37375654|t|Global Impacts of Western Diet and Its Effects on Metabolism and Health: A Narrative Review.
37375654|w|Vicente Javier Clemente-Suárez; Ana Isabel Beltrán-Velasco; Laura Redondo-Flórez; Alexandra Martín-Rodríguez; José Francisco Tornero-Aguilera
37375654|j|Nutrients
37375654|y|2023
37375654|a|The Western diet is a modern dietary pattern characterized by high intakes of pre-packaged foods, refined grains, red meat, processed meat, high-sugar drinks, candy, sweets, fried foods, conventionally raised animal products, high-fat dairy products, and high-fructose products. The present review aims to describe the effect of the Western pattern diet on the metabolism, inflammation, and antioxidant status; the impact on gut microbiota and mitochondrial fitness; the effect of on cardiovascular health, mental health, and cancer; and the sanitary cost of the Western diet. To achieve this goal, a consensus critical review was conducted using primary sources, such as scientific articles, and secondary sources, including bibliographic indexes, databases, and web pages. Scopus, Embase, Science Direct, Sports Discuss, ResearchGate, and the Web of Science were used to complete the assignment. MeSH-compliant keywords such "Western diet", "inflammation", "metabolic health", "metabolic fitness", "heart disease", "cancer", "oxidative stress", "mental health", and "metabolism" were used. The following exclusion criteria were applied: (i) studies with inappropriate or irrelevant topics, not germane to the review's primary focus; (ii) Ph.D. dissertations, proceedings of conferences, and unpublished studies. This information will allow for a better comprehension of this nutritional behavior and its effect on an individual's metabolism and health, as well as the impact on national sanitary systems. Finally, practical applications derived from this information are made.


30544486|t|Microbiome-The Missing Link in the Gut-Brain Axis: Focus on Its Role in Gastrointestinal and Mental Health.
30544486|w|Karolina Skonieczna-Żydecka; Wojciech Marlicz; Agata Misera; Anastasios Koulaouzidis; Igor Łoniewski
30544486|j|Journal of clinical medicine
30544486|y|2018
30544486|a|The central nervous system (CNS) and the human gastrointestinal (GI) tract communicate through the gut-brain axis (GBA). Such communication is bi-directional and involves neuronal, endocrine, and immunological mechanisms. There is mounting data that gut microbiota is the source of a number of neuroactive and immunocompetent substances, which shape the structure and function of brain regions involved in the control of emotions, cognition, and physical activity. Most GI diseases are associated with altered transmission within the GBA that are influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. Current treatment protocols for GI and non-GI disorders may positively or adversely affect the composition of intestinal microbiota with a diverse impact on therapeutic outcome(s). Alterations of gut microbiota have been associated with mood and depressive disorders. Moreover, mental health is frequently affected in GI and non-GI diseases. Deregulation of the GBA may constitute a grip point for the development of diagnostic tools and personalized microbiota-based therapy. For example, next generation sequencing (NGS) offers detailed analysis of microbiome footprints in patients with mental and GI disorders. Elucidating the role of stem cell⁻host microbiome cross talks in tissues in GBA disorders might lead to the development of next generation diagnostics and therapeutics. Psychobiotics are a new class of beneficial bacteria with documented efficacy for the treatment of GBA disorders. Novel therapies interfering with small molecules involved in adult stem cell trafficking are on the horizon.


30991255|t|The gut-brain relationship: Investigating the effect of multispecies probiotics on anxiety in a randomized placebo-controlled trial of healthy young adults.
30991255|w|Nhan Tran; Masha Zhebrak; Christine Yacoub; Joseph Pelletier; Darby Hawley
30991255|j|Journal of affective disorders
30991255|y|2019
30991255|a|There has been an increased interest in understanding the therapeutic effect of gut-microbiota on health, particularly in mental health. However, limited research into the connection between gut-microbiota and mental health makes this study an important endeavor in exploring the effect of gut-microbiota, through probiotics intervention, on mental health like anxiety and factors related to anxiety (e.g., anxiety control, affect, negative mood regulation, and worry). Healthy college students (N = 86; 75.6% female), average age of 20.59, participated in a double-blind, placebo-control, and randomization-control study. Eligible participants completed a baseline survey before being assigned to a condition, which consisted of four probiotics conditions and one placebo condition. After 28 days of daily intake, the participants returned to complete their exit survey. Probiotics were observed to improve panic anxiety, neurophysiological anxiety, negative affect, worry, and increase negative mood regulation. Furthermore, post hoc analyses revealed that the CFU (colony-forming unit) level was more effective than species counts in accounting for the number of significant improvements. A ceiling effect was detected in the study, participants with high distress reported higher number of improvements than those with normative distress. Overall, this study is the first to examine the effect of CFU and species count on probiotics' efficacy. The study's finding suggested that probiotics may have the therapeutic potential to treat anxiety, however, further research is necessary to make that determination.


32506238|t|Gut Microbiome Dysbiosis and Depression: a Comprehensive Review.
32506238|w|Alexander Capuco; Ivan Urits; Jamal Hasoon; Rebecca Chun; Brittany Gerald; Jason K Wang; Anh L Ngo; Thomas Simopoulos; Alan D Kaye; Matthew M Colontonio; Tomasina Q Parker-Actlis; Mitchell C Fuller; Omar Viswanath
32506238|j|Current pain and headache reports
32506238|y|2020
32506238|a|The human gut microbiome is involved in a bi-directional communication pathway with the central nervous system (CNS), termed the microbiota-gut-brain axis. The microbiota-gut-brain axis is believed to mediate or modulate various central processes through the vagus nerve. The microbiota-gut-brain axis is involved with the production of microbial metabolites and immune mediators which trigger changes in neurotransmission, neuroinflammation, and behavior. Little is understood about the utilization of microbiome manipulation to treat disease. Though studies exploring the role of the microbiome in various disease processes have shown promise, mechanisms remain unclear and evidence-based treatments for most illnesses have not yet been developed. The animal studies reviewed in the present investigation include an array of basic science studies that clarify mechanisms by which the microbiome may affect mental health. More evidence is needed, particularly as it relates to translating this work to humans. The studies presented in this review demonstrate encouraging results in the treatment of depression. Limitations include small sample sizes and heterogeneous methodology. The exact mechanism by which the gut microbiota causes or alters neuropsychiatric disease states is not fully understood. In this review, we focus on recent studies investigating the relationship between gut microbiome dysbiosis and the pathogenesis of depression.


34980288|t|Performance of distinct microbial based solutions in a Campylobacter infection challenge model in poultry.
34980288|w|Maxine Ty; Khaled Taha-Abdelaziz; Vanessa Demey; Mathieu Castex; Shayan Sharif; John Parkinson
34980288|j|Animal microbiome
34980288|y|2022
34980288|a|Antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs) are commonly used within poultry production to improve feed conversion, bird growth, and reduce morbidity and mortality from clinical and subclinical diseases. Due to the association between AGP usage and rising antimicrobial resistance, the industry has explored new strategies including the use of probiotics and other microbial-based interventions to promote the development of a healthy microbiome in birds and mitigate against infections associated with food safety and food security. While previous studies have largely focused on the ability of probiotics to protect against Clostridium perfringens and Salmonella enterica, much less is known concerning their impact on Campylobacter jejuni, a near commensal of the chicken gut microbiome that nevertheless is a major cause of food poisoning in humans. Here we compare the efficacy of four microbial interventions (two single strain probiotics, the bacterium-Pediococcus acidilactici, and the yeast-Saccharomyces cerevisiae boulardii; and two complex, competitive exclusion, consortia-Aviguard and CEL) to bacitracin, a commonly used AGP, to modulate chicken gut microbiota and subsequently impact C. jejuni infection in poultry. Cecal samples were harvested at 30- and 39-days post hatch to assess Campylobacter burden and examine their impact on the gut microbiota. While the different treatments did not significantly decrease C. jejuni burden relative to the untreated controls, both complex consortia resulted in significant decreases relative to treatment with bacitracin. Analysis of 16S rDNA profiles revealed a distinct microbial signature associated with each microbial intervention. For example, treatment with Aviguard and CEL increased the relative abundance of Bacteroidaceae and Rikenellaceae respectively. Furthermore, Aviguard promoted a less complex microbial community compared to other treatments. Depending upon the individual needs of the producer, our results illustrate the potential of each microbial interventions to serve flock-specific requirements.


38663221|t|Effects of antipsychotics on the gastrointestinal microbiota: A systematic review.
38663221|w|Marcela França Dias; Yago Jean de Almeida Nogueira; Marco Aurélio Romano-Silva; Débora Marques de Miranda
38663221|j|Psychiatry research
38663221|y|2024
38663221|a|Antipsychotics (APs) have been increasingly prescribed for psychiatric disorders from schizophrenia to disruptive behavioral conditions. These drugs have been associated with considerable side effects, such as weight gain, and increasing evidence has also indicated that its use impacts gut microbiota (GM), although this connection is still little understood. To assess APs effects on the GM of patients starting or ongoing treatment, a systematic review was carried out in PubMed and Scopus databases. Twelve articles were considered eligible for the review, which investigated the effects of risperidone (5 studies), quetiapine (3), amilsupride (1), olanzapine (1), and unspecified atypical drugs (2). Eleven reported changes in GM in response to APs, and associations between the abundance of bacterial groups and different metabolic parameters were described by most of them. However, the studies were noticeably heterogeneous considering design, methods, and results. In this way, the effects of APs on GM composition and diversity were inconclusive. Despite the uncertain interactions, a more comprehensive understanding on how microbiota is affected by APs may help to optimize treatment, potentially minimizing side effects and improving adherence to treatment.


38045052|t|Gut microbiota-derived short-chain fatty acids ameliorate methamphetamine-induced depression- and anxiety-like behaviors in a Sigmar-1 receptor-dependent manner.
38045052|w|Kaikai Zhang; Lijian Chen; Jianzheng Yang; Jiali Liu; Jiahao Li; Yi Liu; Xiuwen Li; Long Chen; Clare Hsu; Jiahao Zeng; Xiaoli Xie; Qi Wang
38045052|j|Acta pharmaceutica Sinica. B
38045052|y|2023
38045052|a|Methamphetamine (Meth) abuse can cause serious mental disorders, including anxiety and depression. The gut microbiota is a crucial contributor to maintaining host mental health. Here, we aim to investigate if microbiota participate in Meth-induced mental disorders, and the potential mechanisms involved. Here, 15 mg/kg Meth resulted in anxiety- and depression-like behaviors of mice successfully and suppressed the Sigma-1 receptor (SIGMAR1)/BDNF/TRKB pathway in the hippocampus. Meanwhile, Meth impaired gut homeostasis by arousing the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-related colonic inflammation, disturbing the gut microbiome and reducing the microbiota-derived short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs). Moreover, fecal microbiota from Meth-administrated mice mediated the colonic inflammation and reproduced anxiety- and depression-like behaviors in recipients. Further, SCFAs supplementation optimized Meth-induced microbial dysbiosis, ameliorated colonic inflammation, and repressed anxiety- and depression-like behaviors. Finally, <i>Sigmar1</i> knockout (<i>Sigmar1</i><sup>-/-</sup>) repressed the BDNF/TRKB pathway and produced similar behavioral phenotypes with Meth exposure, and eliminated the anti-anxiety and -depression effects of SCFAs. The activation of SIGMAR1 with fluvoxamine attenuated Meth-induced anxiety- and depression-like behaviors. Our findings indicated that gut microbiota-derived SCFAs could optimize gut homeostasis, and ameliorate Meth-induced mental disorders in a SIGMAR1-dependent manner. This study confirms the crucial role of microbiota in Meth-related mental disorders and provides a potential preemptive therapy.


28593878|t|Microbiota abnormalities and the therapeutic potential of probiotics in the treatment of mood disorders.
28593878|w|Adiel C Rios; Pawan Kumar Maurya; Mariana Pedrini; Maiara Zeni-Graiff; Elson Asevedo; Rodrigo B Mansur; Andrea Wieck; Rodrigo Grassi-Oliveira; Roger S McIntyre; Mirian A F Hayashi; Elisa Brietzke
28593878|j|Reviews in the neurosciences
28593878|y|2017
28593878|a|Major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BD) are among the leading causes of burden and disability worldwide. Despite intensified research efforts to improve the treatment options and remission rates in mood disorders, no disease modifying treatment exists for these disorders. Accumulating evidence implicates the involvement of the gut microbiota in processes relevant to etiopathology of central nervous system-based disorders. The objective of this article was to critically evaluate the evidence supporting the link between gastrointestinal microbiota and mood disorders and to discuss the potential benefits of using probiotics in the treatment of MDD and BD. The concept of psychobiotics, which is bacterial-based interventions with mental health benefit, is emerging in the field. On the other hand, while probiotics might potentially represent a significant advance, specific roles of microbiota in the pathophysiology of mood disorders still need further investigation along with intervention studies.


25772005|t|Collective unconscious: how gut microbes shape human behavior.
25772005|w|Timothy G Dinan; Roman M Stilling; Catherine Stanton; John F Cryan
25772005|j|Journal of psychiatric research
25772005|y|2015
25772005|a|The human gut harbors a dynamic and complex microbial ecosystem, consisting of approximately 1 kg of bacteria in the average adult, approximately the weight of the human brain. The evolutionary formation of a complex gut microbiota in mammals has played an important role in enabling brain development and perhaps sophisticated social interaction. Genes within the human gut microbiota, termed the microbiome, significantly outnumber human genes in the body, and are capable of producing a myriad of neuroactive compounds. Gut microbes are part of the unconscious system regulating behavior. Recent investigations indicate that these microbes majorly impact on cognitive function and fundamental behavior patterns, such as social interaction and stress management. In the absence of microbes, underlying neurochemistry is profoundly altered. Studies of gut microbes may play an important role in advancing understanding of disorders of cognitive functioning and social interaction, such as autism.


33067643|t|Profiling the differences of gut microbial structure between schizophrenia patients with and without violent behaviors based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing.
33067643|w|Xiacan Chen; Jiajun Xu; Hongren Wang; Jiaguo Luo; Zheng Wang; Gang Chen; Dan Jiang; Ruochen Cao; Haolan Huang; Dan Luo; Xiao Xiao; Junmei Hu
33067643|j|International journal of legal medicine
33067643|y|2021
33067643|a|Understanding the violence behaviors in schizophrenia patients has always been the focus of forensic psychiatry. Although many studies show gut microbiota could regulate behavior, to our knowledge, no studies have profiled the gut microbiota structure in schizophrenia patients with violence. We profiled the characteristics of gut microbiota structure in 26 schizophrenia patients with violence (V.SCZ) by comparing with that of 16 schizophrenia patients without violence (NV.SCZ) under the control of confounders, and found the differences of gut microbiota structure between the two groups. Violence was assessed by the MacArthur Community Violence Instrument. Psychiatric symptoms were assessed by the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale. The 16S rRNA gene sequencing was used to identify and relatively quantify gut microbial composition. Bioinformatics analysis was used to find differential gut microbial composition between the V.SCZ and NV.SCZ groups. Fifty-nine differential microbial taxonomic compositions were found between the two groups. Fifteen gut microbial compositions were the key microbial taxonomic compositions responsible for the differences between the V.SCZ and NV.SCZ groups, including five enriched microbial taxonomic compositions (p_Bacteroidetes, c_Bacteroidia, o_Bacteroidales, f_Prevotellaceae, s_Bacteroides_uniformis), and ten impoverished microbial taxonomic compositions (p_Actinobacteria, c_unidentified_Actinobacteria, o_Bifidobacteriales, f_ Enterococcaceae, f_Veillonellaceae, f_Bifidobacteriaceae, g_Enterococcus, g_Candidatus_Saccharimonas, g_Bifidobacterium, and s_Bifidobacterium_pseudocatenulatum). This study profiled the differences of gut microbiota between schizophrenia patients with violence and without violence. These results could enrich the etiological understanding of violence in schizophrenia and might be helpful to violence management in the future.


38479554|t|Social isolation induces intestinal barrier disorder and imbalances gut microbiota in mice.
38479554|w|Yue Wang; Hidayat Ullah; Ting Deng; Xinxiu Ren; Zinan Zhao; Yi Xin; Juanjuan Qiu
38479554|j|Neuroscience letters
38479554|y|2024
38479554|a|Social isolation, a known stressor, can have detrimental effects on both physical and mental health. Recent scientific attention has been drawn to the gut-brain axis, a bidirectional communication system between the central nervous system and gut microbiota, suggesting that gut microbes may influence brain function. This study aimed to explore the impact of social isolation on the intestinal barrier and gut microbiota. 40 male BALB/c mice were either individually housed or kept in groups for 8 and 15 weeks. Socially isolated mice exhibited increased anxiety-like behavior, with significant differences between the 8-week and 15-week isolation groups (P < 0.05). After 8 weeks of isolation, there was a reduction in tight junction protein expression in the intestinal mechanical barrier. Furthermore, after 15 weeks of isolation, both tight junction protein and mucin expression, key components of the intestinal chemical barrier, decreased. This was accompanied by a substantial increase in inflammatory cytokines (IL-6 mRNA, IL-10, and TNF-α) in colon tissue in the 15-week isolated group (P < 0.05). Additionally, Illumina MiSequencing revealed significant alterations in the gut microbiota of socially isolated mice, including reduced Firmicutes and Bacteroides compared to the control group. Lactobacillus levels also decreased in the socially isolated mice.


31745471|t|Gut Vibes in Parkinson's Disease: The Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis.
31745471|w|Clara Bullich; Ali Keshavarzian; Johan Garssen; Aletta Kraneveld; Paula Perez-Pardo
31745471|j|Movement disorders clinical practice
31745471|y|2019
31745471|a|The complexity of the pathogenic mechanisms underlying neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD) is attributable to multifactorial changes occurring at a molecular level, influenced by genetics and environmental interactions. However, what causes the main hallmarks of PD is not well understood. Recent data increasingly suggest that imbalances in the gut microbiome composition might trigger and/or exacerbate the progression of PD. The present review aims to (1) report emerging literature showing changes in microbiota composition of PD patients compared to healthy individuals and (2) discuss how these changes may initiate and/or perpetuate PD pathology. We analyzed 13 studies published from 2015 and included in this review. Altered microbial taxa were compiled in a detailed table summarizing bacterial changes in fecal/mucosal samples. The methodology was systematically reviewed across the articles and was also included in a table to facilitate comparisons between studies. Multiple studies found a reduction in short-chain fatty-acid-producing bacteria that can rescue neuronal damage through epigenetic mechanisms. Overall, the studies showed that changes in the gut microbiota composition might influence colonic inflammation, gut permeability, and α-synuclein aggregation, contributing to the neurogenerative process. Further studies with larger cohorts and high-resolution sequencing methods are required to better define gut microbiota changes in PD. Furthermore, additional longitudinal studies are required to determine the causal link between these changes and PD pathogenesis as well as to study the potential of the intestinal microbiota as a biomarker.


37744899|t|Impact of clozapine monotherapy on gut microbiota and metabolism in people with schizophrenia.
37744899|w|Feiyan Yin; Zhidao Shi; Xiquan Ma; Kai Ding; Yuan Zhang; Sha Ma
37744899|j|Frontiers in microbiology
37744899|y|2023
37744899|a|Clozapine is considered one of the most effective antipsychotic drugs, but it is most likely to cause metabolic abnormalities. Researchers have studied the causes of metabolic abnormalities caused by clozapine from multiple perspectives, but the reasons remain unclear. Characterize the gut microbiota of people with schizophrenia taking clozapine, exploring the association between gut microbiota and glucose lipid metabolic markers in schizophrenia patients taking clozapine. Sixty-one long-term inpatients with schizophrenia in clozapine monotherapy were selected as study subjects. We got four subgroups by sex and the presence of metabolic syndrome. 16s analysis technology was applied at the genus level to determine the classification of gut microbiota. Then we compared the characteristics of gut microbiota and the association of gut microbiota with glucose lipid metabolic markers in each group. We found differences in the diversity of gut microbiota among groups. The association between gut microbiota and glucose lipid metabolic markers was complicated. Gender was an important differentiating factor. <i>Oscillibacter</i> has a low abundance. However, it was the only genus associated with glycemic or lipids in each group. Among metabolic syndromes, <i>Gemmiger</i> was positively correlated with most lipids in females but negatively correlated in males, showing gender differences. In female non-metabolic syndromes, <i>Bifidobacterium</i> lost its probiotic character; instead, showing pathogenicity, which has strong positive correlations with fasting blood glucose and low-density lipoprotein but negative correlations with Apolipoprotein A1. Maybe schizophrenia, taking clozapine, and gender factors influenced the gut microbiota, which complicated our findings. The significance of the results remains to be determined by in-depth studies.


30271330|t|Gut-Brain Psychology: Rethinking Psychology From the Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis.
30271330|w|Shan Liang; Xiaoli Wu; Feng Jin
30271330|j|Frontiers in integrative neuroscience
30271330|y|2018
30271330|a|Mental disorders and neurological diseases are becoming a rapidly increasing medical burden. Although extensive studies have been conducted, the progress in developing effective therapies for these diseases has still been slow. The current dilemma reminds us that the human being is a superorganism. Only when we take the human self and its partner microbiota into consideration at the same time, can we better understand these diseases. Over the last few centuries, the partner microbiota has experienced tremendous change, much more than human genes, because of the modern transformations in diet, lifestyle, medical care, and so on, parallel to the modern epidemiological transition. Existing research indicates that gut microbiota plays an important role in this transition. According to gut-brain psychology, the gut microbiota is a crucial part of the gut-brain network, and it communicates with the brain via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. The gut microbiota almost develops synchronously with the gut-brain, brain, and mind. The gut microbiota influences various normal mental processes and mental phenomena, and is involved in the pathophysiology of numerous mental and neurological diseases. Targeting the microbiota in therapy for these diseases is a promising approach that is supported by three theories: the gut microbiota hypothesis, the "old friend" hypothesis, and the leaky gut theory. The effects of gut microbiota on the brain and behavior are fulfilled by the microbiota-gut-brain axis, which is mainly composed of the nervous pathway, endocrine pathway, and immune pathway. Undoubtedly, gut-brain psychology will bring great enhancement to psychology, neuroscience, and psychiatry. Various microbiota-improving methods including fecal microbiota transplantation, probiotics, prebiotics, a healthy diet, and healthy lifestyle have shown the capability to promote the function of the gut-brain, microbiota-gut-brain axis, and brain. It will be possible to harness the gut microbiota to improve brain and mental health and prevent and treat related diseases in the future.


37664615|t|Biglycan regulated colorectal cancer progress by modulating enteric neuron-derived IL-10 and abundance of <i>Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron</i>.
37664615|w|Yuyu Xu; Fei Wang; Kai Mi; Xinyuan Wang; Danlei Wang; Qing Zhao; Jingjing Wang; Zhi Liu; Qingqing Zhang; Yang Liu; Xuemei Zhang; Xingyin Liu
37664615|j|iScience
37664615|y|2023
37664615|a|Biglycan (BGN) is a proteoglycan with branch chains and highly expressed in enteric neurons in the tumor tissue of colorectal cancer (CRC), which is negatively associated with survival rates in patients with CRC. However, how the proteoglycan promotes the progress of CRC through interacting with bacteria and regulating the immune response of enteric neurons remains largely unknown. In the present study, we found that biglycan deficiency changed tumor distribution in a colitis-associated colon cancer model. Furthermore, we revealed that BGN deficiency inhibits tumor growth in an allograft tumor model and the migration of cancer cell by upregulating interleukin-10 expression in enteric neurons. Significantly, we demonstrated that biglycan deficiency enriched the abundance of <i>Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron</i> through competing with it for chondroitin sulfate to inhibit CRC progress. Our work provided new insights into the interaction between host proteoglycan and gut microbiota as well as the role of enteric neurons in the tumor microenvironment.


38327077|t|Metagenomic Analysis Reveals Difference of Gut Microbiota in ADHD.
38327077|w|Ning Wang; Haibin Wang; Yu Bai; Yilu Zhao; Xiangyu Zheng; Xuping Gao; Zifeng Zhang; Li Yang
38327077|j|Journal of attention disorders
38327077|y|2024
38327077|a|Although ADHD is highly heritable, some environmental factors contribute to its development. Given the growing evidence that gut microbiota was involved in psychiatric disorders, we aimed to identify the characteristic composition of the gut microbiota in ADHD. We recruited 47 medication-naive children and adolescents with ADHD, and 60 healthy controls (HCs). We used shotgun metagenomics to measure the structure of the gut microbiota and analyzed the difference in bacterial taxa between ADHD and HCs. Significant differences were found between the ADHD and HC groups in both alpha diversity indices (Simpson index, <i>p</i> = .025 and Shannon index, <i>p</i> = .049) and beta diversity indices (Euclidean distance, Bray-Curtis distance, and JSD distance, <i>p</i> < 2.2e-16). Nine representative species best explain the difference. Patients with ADHD showed significant differences in the composition of the gut microbiota compared with HCs. These results may help identify potential biomarkers of ADHD.


37741061|t|The role of the gut-microbiota-brain axis via the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerve in chronic inflammatory pain and comorbid spatial working memory impairment in complete Freund's adjuvant mice.
37741061|w|Caibao Yue; Weiwei Luan; Hanwen Gu; Di Qiu; Xin Ding; Panmiao Liu; Xingming Wang; Kenji Hashimoto; Jian-Jun Yang
37741061|j|Journal of psychiatric research
37741061|y|2023
37741061|a|Chronic inflammatory pain (CIP) is a common public medical problem, often accompanied by memory impairment. However, the mechanisms underlying CIP and comorbid memory impairment remain elusive. This study aimed to examine the role of the gut-microbiota-brain axis in CIP and comorbid memory impairment in mice treated with complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). 16S rRNA analysis showed the altered diversity of gut microbiota from day 1 to day 14 after CFA injection. Interestingly, fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) from healthy naive mice ameliorated comorbidities, such as mechanical allodynia, thermal hyperalgesia, spatial working memory impairment, neuroinflammation, and abnormal composition of gut microbiota in the CFA mice. Additionally, subdiaphragmatic vagotomy (SDV) blocked the onset of these comorbidities. Interestingly, the relative abundance of the bacterial genus or species was also correlated with these comorbidities after FMT or SDV. Therefore, our results suggest that the gut-microbiota-brain axis via the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerve is crucial for the development of CIP and comorbid spatial working memory impairment in CFA mice.


33206326|t|Gut-Brain-Skin Axis in Psoriasis: A Review.
33206326|w|Guang Chen; Zai-Ming Chen; Xiao-Yan Fan; Yue-Lei Jin; Xin Li; Shi-Ren Wu; Wei-Wei Ge; Cao-Hua Lv; Yao-Kun Wang; Jin-Guang Chen
33206326|j|Dermatology and therapy
33206326|y|2021
33206326|a|Psoriasis is a common skin disease, with chronic inflammation and a complex etiology. It has long been recognized that chronic skin conditions and mental health disorders are often co-morbid. Thus, the concept of the gut-brain-skin axis emphasized in mental health disorders may also regulate the health of skin. The gut microbiota has been found to be the bridge between the immune system and nervous system. By leveraging clinical cases and animal models of psoriasis, an important communication pathway has been identified along the gut-brain-skin axis that is associated with the modulation of neurotransmitters from the microbiota. Furthermore, mammalian neurotransmitters, including dopamine, serotonin, or γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA), can be produced and/or consumed by several types of bacteria. Other studies suggest that manipulating these neurotransmitters by bacteria may have an effect on host physiology, and the levels of neurotransmitter can be altered by microbiota-based interventions. Nonetheless, it is unknown whether or not the manipulation of neurotransmitter levels by bacteria can affect the occurrence and development of psoriasis. Notably, preliminary experiments found that oral consumption of probiotics improves the clinical symptoms in patients with psoriasis, perhaps correlated with the gut microbiome-mediated crosstalk between the immune system and the nervous system by secreting neurotransmitters in psoriasis. In this review, the communication along the gut-brain-skin axis is discussed.


37157885|t|The Endotoxin Hypothesis of Parkinson's Disease.
37157885|w|Guy C Brown; Marta Camacho; Caroline H Williams-Gray
37157885|j|Movement disorders : official journal of the Movement Disorder Society
37157885|y|2023
37157885|a|The endotoxin hypothesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) is the idea that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) endotoxins contribute to the pathogenesis of this disorder. LPS endotoxins are found in, and released from, the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria, for example in the gut. It is proposed that gut dysfunction in early PD leads to elevated LPS levels in the gut wall and blood, which promotes both α-synuclein aggregation in the enteric neurons and a peripheral inflammatory response. Communication to the brain via circulating LPS and cytokines in the blood and/or the gut-brain axis leads to neuroinflammation and spreading of α-synuclein pathology, exacerbating neurodegeneration in brainstem nuclei and loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, and manifesting in the clinical symptoms of PD. The evidence supporting this hypothesis includes: (1) gut dysfunction, permeability, and bacterial changes occur early in PD, (2) serum levels of LPS are increased in a proportion of PD patients, (3) LPS induces α-synuclein expression, aggregation, and neurotoxicity, (4) LPS causes activation of peripheral monocytes leading to inflammatory cytokine production, and (5) blood LPS causes brain inflammation and specific loss of midbrain dopaminergic neurons, mediated by microglia. If the hypothesis is correct, then treatment options might include: (1) changing the gut microbiome, (2) reducing gut permeability, (3) reducing circulating LPS levels, or (4) blocking the response of immune cells and microglia to LPS. However, the hypothesis has a number of limitations and requires further testing, in particular whether reducing LPS levels can reduce PD incidence, progression, or severity. © 2023 The Authors. Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.


32918633|t|Early Life Stress and the Development of the Infant Gut Microbiota: Implications for Mental Health and Neurocognitive Development.
32918633|w|Sarah C Vogel; Natalie H Brito; Bridget L Callaghan
32918633|j|Current psychiatry reports
32918633|y|2020
32918633|a|We review the state of the literature examining associations between early life stress (ELS), gut microbiota, and neurocognitive development and mental health in animals and humans. We identify gaps in current models and areas for future research. ELS is associated with changes in gut microbiota, which correspond to changes in affective and cognitive functioning in both animals and humans. Some of these ELS-induced psychological changes can be remedied by supplementation with probiotics in early life, suggesting a potential area for intervention for ELS-exposed children. Prenatal stress exposure is rarely studied in humans in relation to gut microbiota, but animal work has suggested important associations between prenatal stress and fetal programming that should be tested in humans. The gut microbiota plays an important role in the association between ELS, neurocognitive development, and mental health. More work is needed to fully understand these associations in humans.


29542066|t|A systematic review of studies on the faecal microbiota in anorexia nervosa: future research may need to include microbiota from the small intestine.
29542066|w|Hanna Ferløv Schwensen; Carol Kan; Janet Treasure; Niels Høiby; Magnus Sjögren
29542066|j|Eating and weight disorders : EWD
29542066|y|2018
29542066|a|Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a poorly understood and often chronic condition. Deviations in the gut microbiota have been reported to influence the gut-brain axis in other disorders. Therefore, if present in AN, it may impact on symptoms and illness progression. A review of the gut microbiota studies in AN is presented. A literature search on PubMed yielded 27 articles; 14 were selected and based on relevance, 9 articles were included. The findings were interpreted in the larger context of preclinical research and clinical observations. 8 out of 9 included studies analysed microbiota from faeces samples, while the last analysed a protein in plasma produced by the gut. Two studies were longitudinal and included an intervention (i.e., weight restoration), five were cross-sectional, one was a case report, and the last was a case series consisting of three cases. Deviations in abundance, diversity, and microbial composition of the faecal microbiota in AN were found. There are currently only a few studies on the gut microbiota in AN, all done on faeces samples, and not all describe the microbiota at the species level extensively. The Archaeon Methanobrevibacter smithii was increased in participants with a BMI < 25 in one study and specifically in AN patients in three studies. Methanobrevibacter smithii may, if detected, be a benchmark biomarker for future studies. We propose that microbiota samples could also be collected from the small intestine, where a major exchange of nutrients takes place and where the microbiota may have a biological impact on AN.


37108739|t|Circadian Disruption and Mental Health: The Chronotherapeutic Potential of Microbiome-Based and Dietary Strategies.
37108739|w|Pilar Codoñer-Franch; Marie Gombert; José Martínez-Raga; María Carmen Cenit
37108739|j|International journal of molecular sciences
37108739|y|2023
37108739|a|Mental illness is alarmingly on the rise, and circadian disruptions linked to a modern lifestyle may largely explain this trend. Impaired circadian rhythms are associated with mental disorders. The evening chronotype, which is linked to circadian misalignment, is a risk factor for severe psychiatric symptoms and psychiatric metabolic comorbidities. Resynchronization of circadian rhythms commonly improves psychiatric symptoms. Furthermore, evidence indicates that preventing circadian misalignment may help reduce the risk of psychiatric disorders and the impact of neuro-immuno-metabolic disturbances in psychiatry. The gut microbiota exhibits diurnal rhythmicity, as largely governed by meal timing, which regulates the host's circadian rhythms. Temporal circadian regulation of feeding has emerged as a promising chronotherapeutic strategy to prevent and/or help with the treatment of mental illnesses, largely through the modulation of gut microbiota. Here, we provide an overview of the link between circadian disruption and mental illness. We summarize the connection between gut microbiota and circadian rhythms, supporting the idea that gut microbiota modulation may aid in preventing circadian misalignment and in the resynchronization of disrupted circadian rhythms. We describe diurnal microbiome rhythmicity and its related factors, highlighting the role of meal timing. Lastly, we emphasize the necessity and rationale for further research to develop effective and safe microbiome and dietary strategies based on chrononutrition to combat mental illness.


32459513|t|The dichotomous role of the gut microbiome in exacerbating and ameliorating neurodegenerative disorders.
32459513|w|Urdhva Raval; Joyce M Harary; Emma Zeng; Giulio M Pasinetti
32459513|j|Expert review of neurotherapeutics
32459513|y|2020
32459513|a|Age related neurodegenerative disorders affect millions of people around the world. The role of the gut microbiome (GM) in neurodegenerative disorders has been elucidated over the past few years. Dysbiosis of the gut microbiome ultimately results in neurodegeneration. However, the gut microbiome can be modulated to promote neuro-resilience. This review is focused on demonstrating the role of the gut microbiome in host physiology in Parkinson's disease (PD) and other neurodegenerative disorders. We will discuss how the microbiome will impact neurodegeneration in PD, Alzheimer's Disease (AD), Multiple sclerosis (MS), Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), and finally discuss how the gut microbiome can be influenced through diet and lifestyle. Currently, much of the focus has been to study the mechanisms by which the microbiome induces neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration in PD, AD, MS, ALS. In particular, the role of certain dietary flavonoids in regulation of gut microbiome to promote neuro-resilience. Polyphenol prebiotics delivered in combination with probiotics (synbiotics) present an exciting new avenue to harness the microbiome to attenuate immune inflammatory responses which ultimately may influence brain cascades associated with promotion of neurodegeneration across the lifespan.


36400238|t|Bile acids and neurological disease.
36400238|w|Michael J Hurley; Rachel Bates; Jane Macnaughtan; Anthony H V Schapira
36400238|j|Pharmacology & therapeutics
36400238|y|2022
36400238|a|This review will focus on how bile acids are being used in clinical trials to treat neurological diseases due to their central involvement with the gut-liver-brain axis and their physiological and pathophysiological roles in both normal brain function and multiple neurological diseases. The synthesis of primary and secondary bile acids species and how the regulation of the bile acid pool may differ between the gut and brain is discussed. The expression of several bile acid receptors in brain and their currently known functions along with the tools available to manipulate them pharmacologically are examined, together with discussion of the interaction of bile acids with the gut microbiome and their lesser-known effects upon brain glucose and lipid metabolism. How dysregulation of the gut microbiome, aging and sex differences may lead to disruption of bile acid signalling and possible causal roles in a number of neurological disorders are also considered. Finally, we discuss how pharmacological treatments targeting bile acid receptors are currently being tested in an array of clinical trials for several different neurodegenerative diseases.


36990371|t|Outrunning a bad diet: Interactions between exercise and a Western-style diet for adolescent mental health, metabolism and microbes.
36990371|w|Minke H C Nota; Sarah Nicolas; Olivia F O'Leary; Yvonne M Nolan
36990371|j|Neuroscience and biobehavioral reviews
36990371|y|2023
36990371|a|Adolescence is a period of biological, psychological and social changes, and the peak time for the emergence of mental health problems. During this life stage, brain plasticity including hippocampal neurogenesis is increased, which is crucial for cognitive functions and regulation of emotional responses. The hippocampus is especially susceptible to environmental and lifestyle influences, mediated by changes in physiological systems, resulting in enhanced brain plasticity but also an elevated risk for developing mental health problems. Indeed, adolescence is accompanied by increased activation of the maturing hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, sensitivity to metabolic changes due to increased nutritional needs and hormonal changes, and gut microbiota maturation. Importantly, dietary habits and levels of physical activity significantly impact these systems. In this review, the interactions between exercise and Western-style diets, which are high in fat and sugar, on adolescent stress susceptibility, metabolism and the gut microbiota are explored. We provide an overview of current knowledge on implications of these interactions for hippocampal function and adolescent mental health, and speculate on potential mechanisms which require further investigation.


38003647|t|Unveiling the Connection between Microbiota and Depressive Disorder through Machine Learning.
38003647|w|Irina Y Angelova; Alexey S Kovtun; Olga V Averina; Tatiana A Koshenko; Valery N Danilenko
38003647|j|International journal of molecular sciences
38003647|y|2023
38003647|a|In the last few years, investigation of the gut-brain axis and the connection between the gut microbiota and the human nervous system and mental health has become one of the most popular topics. Correlations between the taxonomic and functional changes in gut microbiota and major depressive disorder have been shown in several studies. Machine learning provides a promising approach to analyze large-scale metagenomic data and identify biomarkers associated with depression. In this work, machine learning algorithms, such as random forest, elastic net, and You Only Look Once (YOLO), were utilized to detect significant features in microbiome samples and classify individuals based on their disorder status. The analysis was conducted on metagenomic data obtained during the study of gut microbiota of healthy people and patients with major depressive disorder. The YOLO method showed the greatest effectiveness in the analysis of the metagenomic samples and confirmed the experimental results on the critical importance of a reduction in the amount of <i>Faecalibacterium prausnitzii</i> for the manifestation of depression. These findings could contribute to a better understanding of the role of the gut microbiota in major depressive disorder and potentially lead the way for novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.


36804416|t|A snapshot of gut microbiota data from murine models of Autism Spectrum Disorder: Still a blurred picture.
36804416|w|A M Tartaglione; V Pazienza; G Calamandrei; L Ricceri
36804416|j|Neuroscience and biobehavioral reviews
36804416|y|2023
36804416|a|Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by deficits in social communication and interaction and repetitive/stereotyped behaviors. In recent years, the role of microbiota-gut-brain axis in ASD pathogenesis received growing attention, appearing as an attractive therapeutic target. We provide a comprehensive overview of changes in microbiota composition in ASD murine models so far identified, and summarize the therapeutic approaches targeting the microbiota on ASD-like neurobehavioral profile. Although alterations in microbiota composition have been observed in both genetic and environmental murine models of ASD, a clear microbiota profile shared by different ASD murine models has not been identified. We documented substantial discrepancies among studies (often within the same model), likely due to several confounding factors (from sex and age of animals to housing conditions). Despite these limitations, ASD animal models (under standardized conditions) remain a useful tool to evaluate (i) the beneficial effects of manipulations of gut microbiota on behavioral abnormalities; (ii) underlying neurobiological mechanisms related to gut-brain axis; and (iii) to identify optimal time windows for therapeutic interventions.


35163103|t|Gut-Brain Axis as a Pathological and Therapeutic Target for Neurodegenerative Disorders.
35163103|w|Alma Rosa Lezama Toledo; Germán Rivera Monroy; Felipe Esparza Salazar; Jea-Young Lee; Shalini Jain; Hariom Yadav; Cesario Venturina Borlongan
35163103|j|International journal of molecular sciences
35163103|y|2022
35163103|a|Human lifestyle and dietary behaviors contribute to disease onset and progression. Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs), considered multifactorial disorders, have been associated with changes in the gut microbiome. NDDs display pathologies that alter brain functions with a tendency to worsen over time. NDDs are a worldwide health problem; in the US alone, 12 million Americans will suffer from NDDs by 2030. While etiology may vary, the gut microbiome serves as a key element underlying NDD development and prognosis. In particular, an inflammation-associated microbiome plagues NDDs. Conversely, sequestration of this inflammatory microbiome by a correction in the dysbiotic state of the gut may render therapeutic effects on NDDs. To this end, treatment with short-chain fatty acid-producing bacteria, the main metabolites responsible for maintaining gut homeostasis, ameliorates the inflammatory microbiome. This intimate pathological link between the gut and NDDs suggests that the gut-brain axis (GBA) acts as an underexplored area for developing therapies for NDDs. Traditionally, the classification of NDDs depends on their clinical presentation, mostly manifesting as extrapyramidal and pyramidal movement disorders, with neuropathological evaluation at autopsy as the gold standard for diagnosis. In this review, we highlight the evolving notion that GBA stands as an equally sensitive pathological marker of NDDs, particularly in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and chronic stroke. Additionally, GBA represents a potent therapeutic target for treating NDDs.


29867531|t|The Microbiome-Mitochondria Dance in Prodromal Parkinson's Disease.
29867531|w|Sandra M Cardoso; Nuno Empadinhas
29867531|j|Frontiers in physiology
29867531|y|2018
29867531|a|The brain is an immunologically active organ where neurons and glia cells orchestrate complex innate immune responses against infections and injuries. Neuronal responses involve Toll-like or Nod-like receptors and the secretion of antimicrobial peptides and cytokines. The endosymbiotic theory for the evolutionary origin of mitochondria from primitive bacteria, suggests that they may have also retained the capacity to activate neuronal innate immunity. In fact, it was shown that mitochondrial damage-associated molecular patterns could signal and activate innate immunity and inflammation. Moreover, the mitochondrial cascade hypothesis for sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD) argues that altered mitochondrial metabolism and function can drive neurodegeneration. Additionally, a neuroinflammatory signature with increased levels of pro-inflammatory mediators in PD affected brain areas was recently detected. Herein, we propose that a cascade of events initiating in a dysbiotic gut microbiome drive the production of toxins or antibiotics that target and damage mitochondria. This in turn activates neuronal innate immunity and triggers sterile inflammation phenomena that culminate in the neurodegenerative processes observed in the enteric and in the central nervous systems and that ultimately lead to Parkinson's disease.


36283312|t|Ginsenoside Rh4 remodels the periphery microenvironment by targeting the brain-gut axis to alleviate depression-like behaviors.
36283312|w|Jingjing Shao; Xiaoxuan Ma; Linlin Qu; Pei Ma; Rong Huang; Daidi Fan
36283312|j|Food chemistry
36283312|y|2023
36283312|a|Depression is a neuropsychiatric disease that threatens the physical and mental health of humans worldwide. This study explored the potential anti-depressant effects of ginsenoside Rh4 and its mechanisms of action. The results showed that Rh4 could significantly inhibit depression-like behavior in the depression mouse model and alleviate neuronal damage and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis disorder. Concurrently, Rh4 inhibits hippocampal neuronal apoptosis and synaptic structural damage due to the overexpression of proinflammatory cytokines and overactivation of microglia and astrocytes by inhibiting the immune-inflammatory response and signaling molecular interaction pathways. Rh4 can also improve intestinal flora and increase the short-chain fatty-acids content. The correlation analysis indicated that the Rh4-inhibited LPS/NLRP3/caspase-1/IL-1β signaling pathway plays a key role in ameliorating depression. Therefore, this study provides valuable insights into the mode of action of Rh4 on the brain-gut axis in depression, suggesting that Rh4 may be a promising clinical drug for the treatment of depression.


34034646|t|Comparison study of differential abundance testing methods using two large Parkinson disease gut microbiome datasets derived from 16S amplicon sequencing.
34034646|w|Zachary D Wallen
34034646|j|BMC bioinformatics
34034646|y|2021
34034646|a|Testing for differential abundance of microbes in disease is a common practice in microbiome studies. Numerous differential abundance (DA) testing methods exist and range from traditional statistical tests to methods designed for microbiome data. Comparison studies of DA testing methods have been performed, but none performed on microbiome datasets collected for the study of real, complex disease. Due to this, DA testing was performed here using various DA methods in two large, uniformly collected gut microbiome datasets on Parkinson disease (PD), and their results compared. Overall, 78-92% of taxa tested were detected as differentially abundant by at least one method, while 5-22% were called differentially abundant by the majority of methods (depending on dataset and filtering of taxonomic data prior to testing). Concordances between method results ranged from 1 to 100%. Average concordance for datasets 1 and 2 were 24% and 28% respectively, and 27% for replicated DA signatures. Concordances increased when removing rarer taxa before testing, increasing average concordances by 2-32%. Certain methods consistently resulted in higher concordances (e.g. ANCOM-BC, LEfSe), while others consistently resulted in lower (e.g. edgeR, fitZIG). Hierarchical clustering revealed three groups of DA signatures that were (1) replicated by the majority of methods on average and included taxa previously associated with PD, (2) replicated by a subset of methods and included taxa largely enriched in PD, and (3) replicated by few to one method(s). Differential abundance tests yielded varied concordances, and amounts of detected DA signatures. Some methods were more concordant than others on both filtered and unfiltered data, therefore, if consistency with other study methodology is a key goal, one might choose among these methods. Even still, using one method on one dataset may find true associations, but may also detect false positives. To help lower false positives, one might analyze data with two or more DA methods to gauge concordance, and use a built-in replication dataset. This study will hopefully serve to complement previously reported DA method comparison studies by implementing and coalescing a large number of both previously and yet to be compared methods on two real gut microbiome datasets.


33671569|t|Nutritional Components in Western Diet Versus Mediterranean Diet at the Gut Microbiota-Immune System Interplay. Implications for Health and Disease.
33671569|w|Cielo García-Montero; Oscar Fraile-Martínez; Ana M Gómez-Lahoz; Leonel Pekarek; Alejandro J Castellanos; Fernando Noguerales-Fraguas; Santiago Coca; Luis G Guijarro; Natalio García-Honduvilla; Angel Asúnsolo; Lara Sanchez-Trujillo; Guillermo Lahera; Julia Bujan; Jorge Monserrat; Melchor Álvarez-Mon; Miguel A Álvarez-Mon; Miguel A Ortega
33671569|j|Nutrients
33671569|y|2021
33671569|a|The most prevalent diseases of our time, non-communicable diseases (NCDs) (including obesity, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and some types of cancer) are rising worldwide. All of them share the condition of an "inflammatory disorder", with impaired immune functions frequently caused or accompanied by alterations in gut microbiota. These multifactorial maladies also have in common malnutrition related to physiopathology. In this context, diet is the greatest modulator of immune system-microbiota crosstalk, and much interest, and new challenges, are arising in the area of precision nutrition as a way towards treatment and prevention. It is a fact that the westernized diet (WD) is partly responsible for the increased prevalence of NCDs, negatively affecting both gut microbiota and the immune system. Conversely, other nutritional approaches, such as Mediterranean diet (MD), positively influence immune system and gut microbiota, and is proposed not only as a potential tool in the clinical management of different disease conditions, but also for prevention and health promotion globally. Thus, the purpose of this review is to determine the regulatory role of nutritional components of WD and MD in the gut microbiota and immune system interplay, in order to understand, and create awareness of, the influence of diet over both key components.


34050205|t|Abnormal﻿ composition of microbiota in the gut and skin of imiquimod-treated mice.
34050205|w|Hiroyo Shinno-Hashimoto; Yaeko Hashimoto; Yan Wei; Lijia Chang; Yuko Fujita; Tamaki Ishima; Hiroyuki Matsue; Kenji Hashimoto
34050205|j|Scientific reports
34050205|y|2021
34050205|a|Psoriasis is a chronic, inflammatory skin disease. Although the precise etiology of psoriasis remains unclear, gut-microbiota axis might play a role in the pathogenesis of the disease. Here we investigated whether the composition of microbiota in the intestine and skin is altered in the imiquimod (IMQ)-treated mouse model of psoriasis. Topical application of IMQ to back skin caused significant changes in the composition of microbiota in the intestine and skin of IMQ-treated mice compared to control mice. The LEfSe algorithm identified the species Staphylococcus lentus as potential skin microbial marker for IMQ group. Furthermore, there were correlations for several microbes between the intestine and skin, suggesting a role of skin-gut-microbiota in IMQ-treated mice. Levels of succinic acid and lactic acid in feces from IMQ-treated mice were significantly higher than control mice. Moreover, the predictive functional analysis of the microbiota in the intestine and skin showed that IMQ caused alterations in several KEGG pathways. In conclusion, the current data indicated that topical application with IMQ to skin alters the composition of the microbiota in the gut and skin of host. It is likely that skin-gut microbiota axis plays a role in pathogenesis of psoriasis.


33490703|t|Obesity and gut microbiome: review of potential role of probiotics.
33490703|w|Francine Schütz; Margarida Figueiredo-Braga; Pedro Barata; Natália Cruz-Martins
33490703|j|Porto biomedical journal
33490703|y|2021
33490703|a|Obesity prevalence has increased worldwide over the years, with pandemic levels being already reached, besides to its huge economic and health impacts. The multifactorial pathogenesis of obesity partly explains the important challenge posed to health policy regarding its clinical treatment, with increasing evidences have shown that obesity and metabolic disturbances are closely linked to variations in gut microbiota (GM) function and composition. Indeed, GM play a key contribution in energy metabolism, with GM modulation being increasingly linked to changes in body weight and body mass index. In such matter, probiotics have been proposed as a promising new therapeutic strategy to treat/prevent obesity. Thus, this review aims to provide an overview on the clinical impact and effectiveness of probiotics in obese individuals.


30781628|t|Brain Aging and Gut⁻Brain Axis.
30781628|w|M Hasan Mohajeri
30781628|j|Nutrients
30781628|y|2019
30781628|a|In the last decade, the microbiome in general and the gut microbiome in particular have been associated not only to brain development and function, but also to the pathophysiology of brain aging and to neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), depression, or multiple sclerosis (MS) [...].


34338703|t|Co-supplementation of camelina oil and a prebiotic is more effective for in improving cardiometabolic risk factors and mental health in patients with NAFLD: a randomized clinical trial.
34338703|w|Maryam Kavyani; Sevda Saleh-Ghadimi; Parvin Dehghan; Mahdieh Abbasalizad Farhangi; Manouchehr Khoshbaten
34338703|j|Food & function
34338703|y|2021
34338703|a|This trial evaluated the effects of co-supplementing <i>Camelina sativa</i> oil (CSO) and a prebiotic as modulators of the gut microbiota on cardiometabolic risk factors and mental health in NAFLD patients. In all, 44 subjects with NAFLD were allocated to either an intervention (20 g d<sup>-1</sup> CSO + resistant dextrin) or a placebo (20 g d<sup>-1</sup> CSO + maltodextrin) group and received a calorie-restricted diet (-500 kcal d<sup>-1</sup>) for 12 weeks. Fasting plasma levels of gucose, insulin, hs-CRP, endotoxin, antioxidant enzyme activity, total antioxidant capacity (TAC), malondialdehyde (MDA), 8-iso-prostaglandin F2α, and uric acid were measured at the baseline and post-intervention. The depression, anxiety and stress scale (DASS) and the general health questionnaire (GHQ) were used to assess mental health. Co-supplementing CSO and resistant dextrin significantly decreased the level of insulin concentration (-0.84 μU ml<sup>-1</sup>, <i>p</i> = 0.011), HOMA-IR (-0.27, <i>p</i> = 0.021), hs-CRP (-1.25 pg ml<sup>-1</sup>, <i>p</i> = 0.023), endotoxin (-3.70 EU mL<sup>-1</sup>, <i>p</i> = 0.001), cortisol (-2.43, <i>p</i> = 0.033), GHQ (-5.03, <i>p</i> = 0.035), DASS (-9.01, <i>p</i> = 0.024), and MDA (-0.54 nmol mL<sup>-1</sup>, <i>p</i> = 0.021) and increased the levels of TAC (0.16 mmol L<sup>-1</sup>, <i>p</i> = 0.032) and superoxide dismutase (106.32 U g<sup>-1</sup> Hb, <i>p</i> = 0.45) in the intervention group compared with the placebo group. No significant changes were observed in the levels of other biomarkers. Co-supplementing CSO and resistant dextrin in combination with a low-calorie diet may improve metabolic risk factors and mental health in NAFLD patients.


35307514|t|Gut dysbiosis and age-related neurological diseases in females.
35307514|w|Janelle M Korf; Bhanu P Ganesh; Louise D McCullough
35307514|j|Neurobiology of disease
35307514|y|2022
35307514|a|Historically, females have been underrepresented in biological research. With increased interest in the gut microbiome and the gut-brain axis, it is important for researchers to pursue studies that consider sex as a biological variable. The composition of the gut microbiome is influenced by environmental factors, disease, diet, and varies with age and by sex. Detrimental changes in the gut microbiome, referred to as dysbiosis, is believed to influence the development and progression of age-related neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and stroke. Many are investigating the changes in microbial populations in order or to better understand the role of the gut immunity and the microbiome in neurodegenerative diseases, many of which the exact etiology remains elusive, and no cures exist.  Others are working to find diagnostic markers for earlier detection, or to therapeutically modulate microbial populations using probiotics. However, while all these diseases present in reproductively senescent females, most studies only use male animals for their experimental design. Reproductively senescent females have been shown to have differences in disease progression, inflammatory responses, and microbiota composition, therefore, for research to be translational to affected populations it is necessary for appropriate models to be used. This review discusses factors that influence the gut microbiome and the gut brain axis in females, and highlights studies that have investigated the role of dysbiosis in age-related neurodegenerative disorders that have included females in their study design.


34888340|t|Neuroprotection by the Ketogenic Diet: Evidence and Controversies.
34888340|w|Sarah M Gough; Alicia Casella; Kristen Jasmin Ortega; Abigail S Hackam
34888340|j|Frontiers in nutrition
34888340|y|2021
34888340|a|The ketogenic diet (KD) is a high-fat low-carbohydrate diet that has been used for decades as a non-pharmacologic approach to treat metabolic disorders and refractory pediatric epilepsy. In recent years, enthusiasm for the KD has increased in the scientific community due to evidence that the diet reduces pathology and improves various outcome measures in animal models of neurodegenerative disorders, including multiple sclerosis, stroke, glaucoma, spinal cord injury, retinal degenerations, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. Clinical trials also suggest that the KD improved quality of life in patients with multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, the major ketone bodies BHB and ACA have potential neuroprotective properties and are now known to have direct effects on specific inflammatory proteins, transcription factors, reactive oxygen species, mitochondria, epigenetic modifications and the composition of the gut microbiome. Neuroprotective benefits of the KD are likely due to a combination of these cellular processes and other potential mechanisms that are yet to be confirmed experimentally. This review provides a comprehensive summary of current evidence for the effectiveness of the KD in humans and preclinical models of various neurological disorders, describes molecular mechanisms that may contribute to its beneficial effects, and highlights key controversies and current gaps in knowledge.


35032636|t|Impact of intestinal disorders on central and peripheral nervous system diseases.
35032636|w|Yumna El-Hakim; Shameena Bake; Kathiresh Kumar Mani; Farida Sohrabji
35032636|j|Neurobiology of disease
35032636|y|2022
35032636|a|Brain injuries and neurological diseases have a significant impact on the gut microbiome and the gut barrier. Reciprocally, gut disorders, such as Inflammatory Bowel Syndromes (IBS), can affect the development and pathology of neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric diseases, although this aspect is less well studied and is the focus of this review. Inflammatory Bowel Syndrome (IBS) is a chronic and debilitating functional gastrointestinal disorder afflicting an estimated 9-23% of the world's population. A hallmark of this disease is leaky gut, a pathology in which the integrity of the gut blood barrier is compromised, causing gut contents such as immune cells and microbiota to enter the bloodstream leading to low-grade systemic inflammation. The increased levels of inflammation associated cytokines in circulation has the potential to affect all organs, including the brain. Although the brain is protected by the blood brain barrier, inflammation associated cytokines can damage the junctions in this barrier and allow brain infiltration of peripheral immune cells. Central inflammation in the brain is associated with various neurodegenerative disease such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, and neuropsychiatric disorders, namely, depression, and anxiety. Neurodegenerative diseases are of particular concern due to the anticipated rise in the population of the elderly and consequently, the prevalence of these diseases. Additionally, depression and anxiety are the most common mental illnesses affecting roughly 18% of the American population. In this review, we will explore the mechanisms by which IBS can influence the risk and severity of neurological disease.


38014294|t|The Parkinson's drug entacapone disrupts gut microbiome homeostasis via iron sequestration.
38014294|w|Fátima C Pereira; Xiaowei Ge; Jannie Munk Kristensen; Rasmus H Kirkegaard; Klara Maritsch; Yifan Zhu; Marie Decorte; Bela Hausmann; David Berry; Kenneth Wasmund; Arno Schintlmeister; Thomas Boettcher; Ji-Xin Cheng; Michael Wagner
38014294|j|bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology
38014294|y|2023
38014294|a|Increasing evidence shows that many human-targeted drugs alter the gut microbiome, leading to implications for host health. However, much less is known about the mechanisms by which drugs target the microbiome and how drugs affect microbial function. Here we combined quantitative microbiome profiling, long-read metagenomics, stable isotope probing and single-cell chemical imaging to investigate the impact of two widely prescribed nervous system-targeted drugs on the gut microbiome. <i>Ex vivo</i> supplementation of physiologically relevant concentrations of entacapone or loxapine succinate to faecal samples significantly impacted the abundance of up to one third of the microbial species present. Importantly, we demonstrate that the impact of these drugs on microbial metabolism is much more pronounced than their impact on abundances, with low concentrations of drugs reducing the activity, but not the abundance of key microbiome members like <i>Bacteroides, Ruminococcus</i> or <i>Clostridium</i> species. We further demonstrate that entacapone impacts the microbiome due to its ability to complex and deplete available iron, and that microbial growth can be rescued by replenishing levels of microbiota-accessible iron. Remarkably, entacapone-induced iron starvation selected for iron-scavenging organisms carrying antimicrobial resistance and virulence genes. Collectively, our study unveils the impact of two under-investigated drugs on whole microbiomes and identifies metal sequestration as a mechanism of drug-induced microbiome disturbance.


34413106|t|Protocol for the National Nurse Health Study (NNHS): a web-based ambispective cohort study.
34413106|w|Lin Zhuo; Heli Zhang; Rongmei Geng; Panfeng Wang; Lin Zeng; Ying Che; Peng Wang; Pengfei Li; Tao Huang; Baohua Li; Siyan Zhan
34413106|j|BMJ open
34413106|y|2021
34413106|a|The physical and mental health of nurses may significantly impact the entire medical care group and directly affect the quality of medical services. Due to the intense emotional involvement and often problematic working conditions that characterise their profession, nurses appear to be especially susceptible to a complex set of stressors with repercussions to their health. Several landmark studies of nurses have provided an abundance of evidence on risk factors that influence the health status of nurses. However, few studies have investigated the health status of nurses who work in high-intensity work environments in China. The National Nurse Health Study (NNHS) objective is to build an ambispective cohort to gather web-based information on early-life events, daily habits, occupational and environmental risk factors, and health outcomes of a specific subset of healthcare professionals of Chinese nurses. NNHS, which was developed at a tertiary hospital in Beijing, China, is a research initiative that enrolls registered nurses working at Peking University Third Hospital. A web-based self-administered system was designed to collect health-related data and link them with previous physical examination data. During the study period, participants with signed informed consent will be invited to annually repeat a similar procedure. The NNHS research protocol was approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee and provides promising data that contribute to the understanding of pathophysiological links between early-life events, body composition, gut microbiota, and inflammatory and metabolic risk profiles. Moreover, the combination of a user-friendly tool with the innovative purposes of the NNHS offers a remarkable resource to test hypotheses about mechanisms of diseases, including work stress, and further plan preventive programmes in public health. The study was registered on Clinicaltrials.gov (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04572347) and the China Cohort Consortium (http://chinacohort.bjmu.edu.cn/project/102/).


37597865|t|Protocol for a multicentre cross-sectional, longitudinal ambulatory clinical trial in rheumatoid arthritis and Parkinson's disease patients analysing the relation between the gut microbiome, fasting and immune status in Germany (ExpoBiome).
37597865|w|Bérénice Hansen; Cédric C Laczny; Velma T E Aho; Audrey Frachet-Bour; Janine Habier; Marek Ostaszewski; Andreas Michalsen; Etienne Hanslian; Daniela A Koppold; Anika M Hartmann; Nico Steckhan; Brit Mollenhauer; Sebastian Schade; Kirsten Roomp; Jochen G Schneider; Paul Wilmes
37597865|j|BMJ open
37597865|y|2023
37597865|a|Chronic inflammatory diseases like rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and neurodegenerative disorders like Parkinson's disease (PD) have recently been associated with a decreased diversity in the gut microbiome, emerging as key driver of various diseases. The specific interactions between gut-borne microorganisms and host pathophysiology remain largely unclear. The microbiome can be modulated by interventions comprising nutrition.The aim of our clinical study is to (1) examine effects of prolonged fasting (PF) and time-restricted eating (TRE) on the outcome parameters and the immunophenotypes of RA and PD with (2) special consideration of microbial taxa and molecules associated with changes expected in (1), and (3) identify factors impacting the disease course and treatment by in-depth screening of microorganisms and molecules in personalised HuMiX gut-on-chip models, to identify novel targets for anti-inflammatory therapy. This trial is an open-label, multicentre, controlled clinical trial consisting of a cross-sectional and a longitudinal study. A total of 180 patients is recruited. For the cross-sectional study, 60 patients with PD, 60 patients with RA and 60 healthy controls are recruited at two different, specialised clinical sites. For the longitudinal part, 30 patients with PD and 30 patients with RA undergo 5-7 days of PF followed by TRE (16:8) for a period of 12 months. One baseline visit takes place before the PF intervention and 10 follow-up visits will follow over a period of 12 months (April 2021 to November 2023). Ethical approval was obtained to plan and conduct the trial from the institutional review board of the Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin (EA1/204/19), the ethics committee of the state medical association (Landesärztekammer) of Hessen (2021-2230-zvBO) and the Ethics Review Panel (ERP) of the University of Luxembourg (ERP 21-001 A ExpoBiome). The results of this study will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications, scientific presentations and social media. NCT04847011.


38565567|t|Gamma-aminobutyric acid as a potential postbiotic mediator in the gut-brain axis.
38565567|w|Jason D Braga; Masubon Thongngam; Thanutchaporn Kumrungsee
38565567|j|NPJ science of food
38565567|y|2024
38565567|a|Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) plays a crucial role in the central nervous system as an inhibitory neurotransmitter. Imbalances of this neurotransmitter are associated with neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, and psychological disorders, including anxiety, depression, and stress. Since GABA has long been believed to not cross the blood-brain barrier, the effects of circulating GABA on the brain are neglected. However, emerging evidence has demonstrated that changes in both circulating and brain levels of GABA are associated with changes in gut microbiota composition and that changes in GABA levels and microbiota composition play a role in modulating mental health. This recent research has raised the possibility that GABA may be a potent mediator of the gut-brain axis. This review article will cover up-to-date information about GABA-producing microorganisms isolated from human gut and food sources, explanation why those microorganisms produce GABA, food factors inducing gut-GABA production, evidence suggesting GABA as a mediator linking between gut microbiota and mental health, including anxiety, depression, stress, epilepsy, autism spectrum disorder, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and novel information regarding homocarnosine-a predominant brain peptide that is a putative downstream mediator of GABA in regulating brain functions. This review will help us to understand how the gut microbiota and GABA-homocarnosine metabolism play a significant role in brain functions. Nonetheless, it could support further research on the use of GABA production-inducing microorganisms and food factors as agents to treat neurological and psychological disorders.


37016046|t|Komagataella pastoris KM71H Mitigates Depressive-Like Phenotype, Preserving Intestinal Barrier Integrity and Modulating the Gut Microbiota in Mice.
37016046|w|Paloma T Birmann; Angela M Casaril; Ana Paula Pesarico; Rafael R Rodrigues; Fabricio R Conceição; Fernanda Severo Sabedra Sousa; Tiago Collares; Fabiana K Seixas; Lucielli Savegnago
37016046|j|Molecular neurobiology
37016046|y|2023
37016046|a|The role of intestinal microbiota in the genesis of mental health has received considerable attention in recent years, given that probiotics are considered promising therapeutic agents against major depressive disorder. Komagataella pastoris KM71H is a yeast with probiotic properties and antidepressant-like effects in animal models of depression. Hence, we evaluated the antidepressant-like effects of K. pastoris KM71H in a model of antibiotic-induced intestinal dysbiosis in male Swiss mice. The mice received clindamycin (200 μg, intraperitoneal) and, after 24 h, were treated with K. pastoris KM71H at a dose of 8 log CFU/animal by intragastric administration (ig) or PBS (vehicle, ig) for 14 consecutive days. Afterward, the animals were subjected to behavioral tests and biochemical analyses. Our results showed that K. pastoris KM71H administration decreased the immobility time in the tail suspension test and increased grooming activity duration in the splash test in antibiotic-treated mice, thereby characterizing its antidepressant-like effect. We observed that these effects of K. pastoris KM71H were accompanied by the modulation of the intestinal microbiota, preservation of intestinal barrier integrity, and restoration of the mRNA levels of occludin, zonula occludens-1, zonula occludens-2, and toll-like receptor-4 in the small intestine, and interleukin-1β in the hippocampi of mice. Our findings provide solid evidence to support the development of K. pastoris KM71H as a new probiotic with antidepressant-like effects.


32224141|t|Molecular mechanisms of the rapid-acting and long-lasting antidepressant actions of (R)-ketamine.
32224141|w|Kenji Hashimoto
32224141|j|Biochemical pharmacology
32224141|y|2020
32224141|a|Ketamine, an anesthetic developed in the early 1960s, is also a popular abused drug among young people at dance parties and raves and among spiritual seekers, because it produces schizophrenia-like symptoms and dissociation (i.e., out-of-body experience). Regarding mood disorders, ketamine exerts robust antidepressant actions in treatment-resistant patients with depression. Ketamine is a racemic mixture comprising equal parts of (R)-ketamine (or arketamine) and (S)-ketamine (or esketamine). The United States (US) Food and Drug Administration approved the J&J (S)-ketamine nasal spray for treatment-resistant depression on March 5, 2019; the spray was then approved in Europe (December 19, 2019). Although (R)-ketamine has lower affinity for the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) vs. (S)-ketamine, (R)-ketamine has greater potency and longer-lasting antidepressant-like actions in animal models of depression. Importantly, (R)-ketamine has less detrimental side effects than does (R,S)-ketamine or (S)-ketamine in rodents, monkeys, and humans. A role for the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) receptor in the antidepressant effects of ketamine and its two enantiomers has been suggested. A recent RNA-sequencing analysis suggested that the transforming growth factor β1 (TGF-β1) plays a role in the antidepressant effects of (R)-ketamine. A recent pilot study demonstrated that (R)-ketamine had rapid-acting and sustained antidepressant effects in treatment-resistant patients with depression. In this article, the author reviews the mechanisms of the antidepressant actions of the enantiomers of ketamine and its metabolites, (S)-norketamine and (2R,6R)-hydroxynorketamine (HNK) and discusses the role of the brain-gut-microbiota axis and brain-spleen axis in stress-related psychiatric disorders, such as depression.


35185631|t|The Gut-Brain-Immune Axis in Autism Spectrum Disorders: A State-of-Art Report.
35185631|w|Chiara Puricelli; Roberta Rolla; Luca Gigliotti; Elena Boggio; Eleonora Beltrami; Umberto Dianzani; Roberto Keller
35185631|j|Frontiers in psychiatry
35185631|y|2021
35185631|a|The interest elicited by the large microbial population colonizing the human gut has ancient origins and has gone through a long evolution during history. However, it is only in the last decades that the introduction of high-throughput technologies has allowed to broaden this research field and to disentangle the numerous implications that gut microbiota has in health and disease. This comprehensive ecosystem, constituted mainly by bacteria but also by fungi, parasites, and viruses, is proven to be involved in several physiological and pathological processes that transcend the intestinal homeostasis and are deeply intertwined with apparently unrelated body systems, such as the immune and the nervous ones. In this regard, a novel speculation is the relationship between the intestinal microbial flora and the pathogenesis of some neurological and neurodevelopmental disorders, including the clinical entities defined under the umbrella term of autism spectrum disorders. The bidirectional interplay has led researchers to coin the term gut-brain-immune system axis, subverting the theory of the brain as an immune-privileged site and underscoring the importance of this reciprocal influence already from fetal life and especially during the pre- and post-natal neurodevelopmental process. This revolutionary theory has also unveiled the possibility to modify the gut microbiota as a way to treat and even to prevent different kinds of pathologies. In this sense, some attempts have been made, ranging from probiotic administration to fecal microbiota transplantation, with promising results that need further elaboration. This state-of-art report will describe the main aspects regarding the human gut microbiome and its specific role in the pathogenesis of autism and its related disorders, with a final discussion on the therapeutic and preventive strategies aiming at creating a healthy intestinal microbial environment, as well as their safety and ethical implications.


34617139|t|A next-generation probiotic: Akkermansia muciniphila ameliorates chronic stress-induced depressive-like behavior in mice by regulating gut microbiota and metabolites.
34617139|w|Yang Ding; Fan Bu; Tuo Chen; Guoping Shi; Xiaomin Yuan; Zeyu Feng; Zhenglan Duan; Rong Wang; Sumin Zhang; Qiong Wang; Jinyong Zhou; Yugen Chen
34617139|j|Applied microbiology and biotechnology
34617139|y|2021
34617139|a|Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a neurasthenic disease, which is the second-largest burden of disease globally. Increasing studies have revealed that depression is associated with abnormalities in gut microbiota and metabolites. Several species of bacteria have been classified as psychobiotics, which confer mental health benefits through interactions with commensal gut microbiota. Therefore, it is essential to identify new psychobiotics and elucidate their mechanisms in the treatment of depression. This study aims to evaluate the antidepressant effect of Akkermansia muciniphila (AKK) in a mouse model of depression induced by chronic restraint stress (CRS). C57BL/6 male mice were divided into three groups: mice subjected to CRS, mice not subjected to CRS, and mice treated with AKK for 3 weeks. Behavioral tests were performed, and hormone, neurotransmitter, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels were measured. Cecal microbiota was analyzed using 16S rRNA gene sequencing, and serum metabolites were detected using untargeted metabolomics. In addition, correlations between altered gut microbiota and metabolites with significant variations in serum associated with AKK ameliorating depression were analyzed using Pearson's correlation coefficient. The results revealed that AKK significantly ameliorated depressive-like behavior and restored abnormal variations in depression-related molecular (corticosterone, dopamine, and BDNF). Moreover, AKK altered chronic stress-induced gut microbial abnormalities. Untargeted metabolomics analysis revealed 23 potential biomarkers in serum that could be associated with the mechanisms underlying CRS-induced depression and the therapeutic effects of AKK. Pearson's correlation coefficient analysis revealed that AKK predominantly upregulated β-alanyl-3-methyl-L-histidine and edaravone to relieve depression. Furthermore, β-alanyl-3-methyl-L-histidine and edaravone exhibited the antidepressant phenotype in mice subjected to CRS. In conclusion, the study demonstrated that AKK ameliorates chronic stress-induced depressive symptoms in mice by regulating gut microbiota and metabolites. KEY POINTS: • AKK reduces depressive-like behaviors induced by chronic stress. • AKK regulates the gut microbial structure and metabolomics of serum under the chronic stress. • Antidepressant effect of AKK correlates with the increase of β-alanyl-3-methyl-l-histidine and edaravone.


34357070|t|Association of Gut Microbiome Dysbiosis with Neurodegeneration: Can Gut Microbe-Modifying Diet Prevent or Alleviate the Symptoms of Neurodegenerative Diseases?
34357070|w|Li Yang Tan; Xin Yi Yeo; Han-Gyu Bae; Delia Pei Shan Lee; Roger C Ho; Jung Eun Kim; Dong-Gyu Jo; Sangyong Jung
34357070|j|Life (Basel, Switzerland)
34357070|y|2021
34357070|a|The central nervous system was classically perceived as anatomically and functionally independent from the other visceral organs. But in recent decades, compelling evidence has led the scientific community to place a greater emphasis on the role of gut microbes on the brain. Pathological observations and early gastrointestinal symptoms highlighted that gut dysbiosis likely precedes the onset of cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. The delicate balance in the number and functions of pathogenic microbes and alternative probiotic populations is critical in the modulation of systemic inflammation and neuronal health. However, there is limited success in restoring healthy microbial biodiversity in AD and PD patients with general probiotics interventions and fecal microbial therapies. Fortunately, the gut microflora is susceptible to long-term extrinsic influences such as lifestyle and dietary choices, providing opportunities for treatment through comparatively individual-specific control of human behavior. In this review, we examine the impact of restrictive diets on the gut microbiome populations associated with AD and PD. The overall evidence presented supports that gut dysbiosis is a plausible prelude to disease onset, and early dietary interventions are likely beneficial for the prevention and treatment of progressive neurodegenerative diseases.


32056905|t|Reduced anti-inflammatory gut microbiota are associated with depression and anhedonia.
32056905|w|Brittany L Mason; Qiwei Li; Abu Minhajuddin; Andrew H Czysz; Laura A Coughlin; Sarah K Hussain; Andrew Y Koh; Madhukar H Trivedi
32056905|j|Journal of affective disorders
32056905|y|2020
32056905|a|Characterise gut microbiota distributions of participants with co-occurring depression and anxiety, in those with only depression or with anxiety, and determine if gut bacteria differentially correlates with distinct clinical presentations. Participants (10 healthy controls [mean age: 33, 60% female] and 60 psychiatric subjects; major depressive disorder (comorbid with anxiety), n = 38 [mean age: 39.2, 82% female], anxiety only, n = 8 [mean age: 40.0, 100% female], depression only without anxiety, n = 14 [mean age: 41.9, 79% female]) were characterized by psychiatric assessments. Quantitative PCR and 16S rRNA sequencing were used to characterize the gut microbiota in stool samples. Altered microbiota correlated with pre-defined clinical presentation, with Bacteroides (p = 0.011) and the Clostridium leptum subgroup (p = 0.023) significantly different between clinical categories. Cluster analysis of the total sample using weighted UniFrac β-diversity of the gut microbiota identified two different clusters defined by differences in bacterial distribution. Cluster 2 had higher Bacteroides (p = 0.006), and much reduced presence of Clostridales (p<0.001) compared to Cluster 1. Bifidobacterium (p = 0.0173) was also reduced in Cluster 2 compared to Cluster 1. When evaluated for clinical charateristics, anhedonia scores in Cluster 2 were higher than in Cluster 1. The sample is smaller and predominately female. Reduced or absent Clostridia was consistently seen in those with depression, independent of the presence of anxiety. Conversely, reduced Bacteroides may be more associated with the presence of anxiety, independent of the presence of depression. These differences suggest that gut microbiota distribution could help clarify the underlying pathology of comorbid clinical presentation.


36430144|t|What Are the Key Gut Microbiota Involved in Neurological Diseases? A Systematic Review.
36430144|w|Bruno Bonnechère; Najaf Amin; Cornelia van Duijn
36430144|j|International journal of molecular sciences
36430144|y|2022
36430144|a|There is a growing body of evidence highlighting there are significant changes in the gut microbiota composition and relative abundance in various neurological disorders. We performed a systematic review of the different microbiota altered in a wide range of neurological disorders (Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and stroke). Fifty-two studies were included representing 5496 patients. At the genus level, the most frequently involved microbiota are Akkermansia, Faecalibacterium, and Prevotella. The overlap between the pathologies was strongest for MS and PD, sharing eight genera (Akkermansia, Butyricicoccus, Bifidobacterium, Coprococcus, Dorea, Faecalibacterium, Parabacteroides, and Prevotella) and PD and stroke, sharing six genera (Enterococcus, Faecalibacterium, Lactobacillus, Parabacteroides, Prevotella, and Roseburia). The identification signatures overlapping for AD, PD, and MS raise the question of whether these reflect a common etiology or rather common consequence of these diseases. The interpretation is hampered by the low number and low power for AD, ALS, and stroke with ample opportunity for false positive and false negative findings.


36769029|t|Health Benefits of Coffee Consumption for Cancer and Other Diseases and Mechanisms of Action.
36769029|w|Stephen Safe; Jainish Kothari; Amanuel Hailemariam; Srijana Upadhyay; Laurie A Davidson; Robert S Chapkin
36769029|j|International journal of molecular sciences
36769029|y|2023
36769029|a|Coffee is one of the most widely consumed beverages worldwide, and epidemiology studies associate higher coffee consumption with decreased rates of mortality and decreased rates of neurological and metabolic diseases, including Parkinson's disease and type 2 diabetes. In addition, there is also evidence that higher coffee consumption is associated with lower rates of colon and rectal cancer, as well as breast, endometrial, and other cancers, although for some of these cancers, the results are conflicting. These studies reflect the chemopreventive effects of coffee; there is also evidence that coffee consumption may be therapeutic for some forms of breast and colon cancer, and this needs to be further investigated. The mechanisms associated with the chemopreventive or chemotherapeutic effects of over 1000 individual compounds in roasted coffee are complex and may vary with different diseases. Some of these mechanisms may be related to nuclear factor erythroid 2 (Nrf2)-regulated pathways that target oxidative stress or pathways that induce reactive oxygen species to kill diseased cells (primarily therapeutic). There is evidence for the involvement of receptors which include the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and orphan nuclear receptor 4A1 (NR4A1), as well as contributions from epigenetic pathways and the gut microbiome. Further elucidation of the mechanisms will facilitate the potential future clinical applications of coffee extracts for treating cancer and other inflammatory diseases.


37557965|t|The interactions between host genome and gut microbiome increase the risk of psychiatric disorders: Mendelian randomization and biological annotation.
37557965|w|Liling Xiao; Siyi Liu; Yulu Wu; Yunqi Huang; Shiwan Tao; Yunjia Liu; Yiguo Tang; Min Xie; Qianshu Ma; Yubing Yin; Minhan Dai; Mengting Zhang; Elyse Llamocca; Hongsheng Gui; Qiang Wang
37557965|j|Brain, behavior, and immunity
37557965|y|2023
37557965|a|The correlation between human gut microbiota and psychiatric diseases has long been recognized. Based on the heritability of the microbiome, genome-wide association studies on human genome and gut microbiome (mbGWAS) have revealed important host-microbiome interactions. However, establishing causal relationships between specific gut microbiome features and psychological conditions remains challenging due to insufficient sample sizes of previous studies of mbGWAS. Cross-cohort meta-analysis (via METAL) and multi-trait analysis (via MTAG) were used to enhance the statistical power of mbGWAS for identifying genetic variants and genes. Using two large mbGWAS studies (7,738 and 5,959 participants respectively) and12 disease-specific studies from the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC), we performed bidirectional two-sample mendelian randomization (MR) analyses between microbial features and psychiatric diseases (up to 500,199 individuals). Additionally, we conducted downstream gene- and gene-set-based analyses to investigate the shared biology linking gut microbiota and psychiatric diseases. METAL and MTAG conducted in mbGWAS could boost power for gene prioritization and MR analysis. Increases in the number of lead SNPs and mapped genes were witnessed in 13/15 species and 5/10 genera after using METAL, and MTAG analysis gained an increase in sample size equivalent to expanding the original samples from 7% to 63%. Following METAL use, we identified a positive association between Bacteroides faecis and ADHD (OR, 1.09; 95 %CI, 1.02-1.16; P = 0.008). Bacteroides eggerthii and Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron were observed to be positively associated with PTSD (OR, 1.11; 95 %CI, 1.03-1.20; P = 0.007; OR, 1.11; 95 %CI, 1.01-1.23; P = 0.03). These findings remained stable across statistical models and sensitivity analyses. No genetic liabilities to psychiatric diseases may alter the abundance of gut microorganisms.Using biological annotation, we identified that those genes contributing to microbiomes (e.g., GRIN2A and RBFOX1) are expressed and enriched in human brain tissues. Our statistical genetics strategy helps to enhance the power of mbGWAS, and our genetic findings offer new insights into biological pleiotropy and causal relationship between microbiota and psychiatric diseases.


37761988|t|Age-Related Cognitive Decline, Focus on Microbiome: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.
37761988|w|Donatella Coradduzza; Stefania Sedda; Sara Cruciani; Maria Rosaria De Miglio; Carlo Ventura; Alessandra Nivoli; Margherita Maioli
37761988|j|International journal of molecular sciences
37761988|y|2023
37761988|a|Aging is a complex process influenced by genetics and the environment, leading to physiological decline and increased susceptibility to diseases. Cognitive decline is a prominent feature of aging, with implications for different neurodegenerative disorders. The gut microbiome has gained attention for its potential impact on health and disease, including cognitive function. This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to investigate the relationship between the gut microbiome and cognitive function in the context of aging. Following PRISMA guidelines, a comprehensive search strategy was employed in PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science databases. Studies exploring the role of the microbiome in cognition and neurodegenerative disorders, published between 2013 and 2023, were included. Data extraction and quality assessment were performed. Quantitative synthesis using statistical analyses was performed to examine microbial diversity and relative abundance in various cognitive conditions. Sixteen studies involving a total of 1303 participants were included in the analysis. The gut microbiota's relative abundance was different in individuals with cognitive impairments such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and dementia, compared to the healthy controls. The most prevalent phyla affected were Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria, and Proteobacteria. Meta-analyses indicated substantial heterogeneity among studies focusing on Alzheimer's disease. The overall quality of evidence related to microbial analysis was moderate. The gut microbiome's role in cognitive decline and neurodegenerative disorders warrants investigation. Altered microbial abundance, particularly in specific phyla, is associated with cognitive impairments. However, variations in study findings and methodologies highlight the complexity of the relationship between the gut microbiome and cognitive function. Further studies are needed to better understand the mechanisms underlying this connection and its potential implications for aging and cognitive health.


36972851|t|Abnormal compositions of gut microbiota and metabolites are associated with susceptibility versus resilience in rats to inescapable electric stress.
36972851|w|Xingming Wang; Akifumi Eguchi; Yuko Fujita; Xiayun Wan; Lijia Chang; Yong Yang; Jiajing Shan; Youge Qu; Li Ma; Yukihiko Shirayama; Chisato Mori; Jianjun Yang; Kenji Hashimoto
36972851|j|Journal of affective disorders
36972851|y|2023
36972851|a|Increasing evidence suggests the role of gut microbiota in resilience versus vulnerability after stress. However, the role of gut microbiota and microbiome-derived metabolites in resilience versus susceptibility in rodents exposed to stress remains unclear. Adult male rats were exposed to inescapable electric stress under the learned helplessness (LH) paradigm. The composition of gut microbiota and metabolites in the brain and blood from control (no stress) rats, LH resilient rats, and LH susceptible rats were examined. At the genus level, the relative abundances of Asaccharobacter, Eisenbergiella, and Klebsiella in LH susceptible rats were significantly higher than that of LH resilient rats. At the species level, the relative abundances of several microbiome were significantly altered between LH susceptible rats and LH resilient rats. Furthermore, there were several metabolites in the brain and blood altered between LH susceptible rats and LH resilient rats. A network analysis showed correlations between the abundance of several microbiome and metabolites in the brain (or blood). Detailed roles of microbiome and metabolites are unclear. These findings suggest that abnormal compositions of the gut microbiota and metabolites might contribute to susceptibility versus resilience in rats subjected to inescapable electric foot shock.


34965376|t|Alzheimer's Disease and Parkinson's Disease May Result from Reactivation of Embryologic Pathways Silenced at Birth.
34965376|w|Steven Lehrer; Peter H Rheinstein
34965376|j|Discovery medicine
34965376|y|2021
34965376|a|Alzheimer's disease (AD), Lewy Body Dementia (LBD), and Parkinson's disease (PD) form a continuum that may explain multiple aspects of age-related neurodegeneration. Inflammaging, the long-term result of the chronic physiological stimulation of the innate immune system, is integral to this process. The gut microbiome plays an important role in inflammaging, as it can release inflammatory products and communicate with other organs and systems. Although AD and PD are molecularly and clinically distinct disorders, their causes appear to underlie LBD. All three conditions lie on a continuum related to AD, PD, or LBD in vulnerable persons. Inflammation in AD is linked to cytokines and growth factors. Moreover, cytokines and neurotrophins profoundly affect PD and LBD. Growth factors, neurotrophins and cytokines are also involved in embryo neural development. Cytokines influence gene expression, metabolism, cell stress, and apoptosis in the preimplantation embryo. The responsible genes are silenced around birth. But if activated by inflammaging and viruses in the brain decades later, they could destroy the same neural structures they created in utero. For this reason, the pathology and progression of AD, LBD, and PD would be unique. Embryonic reactivation could explain two well documented features of AD. 1) NSAIDs reduce AD risk but fail as a treatment. 2) NSAIDs reduce AD risk because they suppress inflammaging. But they are not a treatment because they cannot silence the embryonic genes that have become active and damage the brain.


25415497|t|The gut microbiome and diet in psychiatry: focus on depression.
25415497|w|Sarah Dash; Gerard Clarke; Michael Berk; Felice N Jacka
25415497|j|Current opinion in psychiatry
25415497|y|2015
25415497|a|With depressive disorders the leading source of disability globally, the identification of new targets for prevention and management is imperative. A rapidly emerging field of research suggests that the microbiome-gut-brain axis is of substantial relevance to mood and behaviour. Similarly, unhealthy diet has recently emerged as a significant correlate of and risk factor for depression. This review provides evidence for the gut microbiota as a key factor mediating the link between diet and depressive illness. The development of new technologies is affording a better understanding of how diet influences gut microbiota composition and activity and how this may, in turn, influence depressive illness. New interventions are also suggesting the possible utility of pre and probiotic formulations and fermented food in influencing mental health. Although in its early stages, the emerging field of research focused on the human microbiome suggests an important role for the gut microbiota in influencing brain development, behaviour and mood in humans. The recognition that the gut microbiota interacts bidirectionally with other environmental risk factors, such as diet and stress, suggests promise in the development of interventions targeting the gut microbiota for the prevention and treatment of common mental health disorders.


36542917|t|Gut microbiota and its roles in the pathogenesis and therapy of endocrine system diseases.
36542917|w|Zhuoxuan Wu; Erkang Tian; Yuyang Chen; Zaiquan Dong; Qiang Peng
36542917|j|Microbiological research
36542917|y|2023
36542917|a|A new field of microbial research is the relationship between microorganisms and multicellular hosts. It is known that gut microbes can cause various endocrine system diseases, such as diabetes and thyroid disease. Changes in the composition or structure and the metabolites of gut microbes may cause gastrointestinal disorders, including ulcers or intestinal perforation and other inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. In recent years, reports on the interactions between intestinal microorganisms and endocrine system diseases have been increasingly documented. In the meantime, the treatment based on gut microbiome has also been paid much attention. For example, fecal microbiota transplantation is found to have a therapeutic effect on many diseases. As such, understanding the gut microbiota-endocrine system interactions is of great significance for the theranostic of endocrine system diseases. Herein, we summarize the relations of gut microbiome with endocrine system diseases, and discuss the potentials of regulating gut microbiome in treating those diseases. In addition, the concerns and possible solutions regarding the gut microbiome-based therapy are discussed.


34835436|t|The Potential Utility of Prebiotics to Modulate Alzheimer's Disease: A Review of the Evidence.
34835436|w|Jea Woo Kang; Angela M Zivkovic
34835436|j|Microorganisms
34835436|y|2021
34835436|a|The gut microbiome has recently emerged as a critical modulator of brain function, with the so-called gut-brain axis having multiple links with a variety of neurodegenerative and mental health conditions, including Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Various approaches for modulating the gut microbiome toward compositional and functional states that are consistent with improved cognitive health outcomes have been documented, including probiotics and prebiotics. While probiotics are live microorganisms that directly confer beneficial health effects, prebiotics are oligosaccharide and polysaccharide structures that can beneficially modulate the gut microbiome by enhancing the growth, survival, and/or function of gut microbes that in turn have beneficial effects on the human host. In this review, we discuss evidence showing the potential link between gut microbiome composition and AD onset or development, provide an overview of prebiotic types and their roles in altering gut microbial composition, discuss the effectiveness of prebiotics in regulating gut microbiome composition and microbially derived metabolites, and discuss the current evidence linking prebiotics with health outcomes related to AD in both animal models and human trials. Though there is a paucity of human clinical trials demonstrating the effectiveness of prebiotics in altering gut microbiome-mediated health outcomes in AD, current evidence highlights the potential of various prebiotic approaches for beneficially altering the gut microbiota or gut physiology by promoting the production of butyrate, indoles, and secondary bile acid profiles that further regulate gut immunity and mucosal homeostasis, which are associated with beneficial effects on the central immune system and brain functionality.


34830242|t|Assessment of the Effects of Dietary Vitamin D Levels on Olanzapine-Induced Metabolic Side Effects: Focus on the Endocannabinoidome-Gut Microbiome Axis.
34830242|w|Armita Abolghasemi; Claudia Manca; Fabio A Iannotti; Melissa Shen; Nadine Leblanc; Sébastien Lacroix; Cyril Martin; Nicolas Flamand; Vincenzo Di Marzo; Cristoforo Silvestri
34830242|j|International journal of molecular sciences
34830242|y|2021
34830242|a|Vitamin D deficiency is associated with poor mental health and dysmetabolism. Several metabolic abnormalities are associated with psychotic diseases, which can be compounded by atypical antipsychotics that induce weight gain and insulin resistance. These side-effects may be affected by vitamin D levels. The gut microbiota and endocannabinoidome (eCBome) are significant regulators of both metabolism and mental health, but their role in the development of atypical antipsychotic drug metabolic side-effects and their interaction with vitamin D status is unknown. We studied the effects of different combinations of vitamin D levels and atypical antipsychotic drug (olanzapine) exposure on whole-body metabolism and the eCBome-gut microbiota axis in female C57BL/6J mice under a high fat/high sucrose (HFHS) diet in an attempt to identify a link between the latter and the different metabolic outputs induced by the treatments. Olanzapine exerted a protective effect against diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance, largely independent of dietary vitamin D status. These changes were concomitant with olanzapine-mediated decreases in <i>Trpv1</i> expression and increases in the levels of its agonists, including various <i>N</i>-acylethanolamines and 2-monoacylglycerols, which are consistent with the observed improvement in adiposity and metabolic status. Furthermore, while global gut bacteria community architecture was not altered by olanzapine, we identified changes in the relative abundances of various commensal bacterial families. Taken together, changes of eCBome and gut microbiota families under our experimental conditions might contribute to olanzapine and vitamin D-mediated inhibition of weight gain in mice on a HFHS diet.


37994886|t|[The regulatory role of gut microbiota in inflammation in depression and anxiety].
37994886|w|E F Vasilyeva
37994886|j|Zhurnal nevrologii i psikhiatrii imeni S.S. Korsakova
37994886|y|2023
37994886|a|Numerous studies have identified the important role of the gut microbiota in maintaining of the CNS normal functioning and in the pathogenesis of mental disorders as one of the systems regulating the bidirectional communication between the gut and the brain. The microbiota has been found to be involved in the modulation of inflammation as well as in the development and function of the immune and nervous systems. It is assumed that in multicellular organisms, the nervous and immune systems have evolved together with the microbiota, being in interaction with it, in order to optimize the body's ability to adapt to a wide range of environmental stresses in order to maintain the constancy of its homeostasis. Normally, microbes live in stable communities, while under conditions of even mild or chronic social stress, significant shifts in the composition of the microbiota occur, which lead to the development of dysbiosis associated with changes in microbiota metabolites, which can lead to the formation of physiology and behavior characteristic of stress and depression. Microbes influence the activation of peripheral immune cells that regulate the response to neuroinflammation, brain damage, autoimmune responses, and neurogenesis. The review provides a brief overview of the normal gut microbiota, describes the factors influencing the state of the microbiota, and also discusses recent discoveries concerning the regulatory effect of the gut microbiota on CNS functions, the immune system, and inflammation in the pathogenesis of depression and anxiety.


30223263|t|The Role of Nutrition and the Gut-Brain Axis in Psychiatry: A Review of the Literature.
30223263|w|Sabrina Mörkl; Jolana Wagner-Skacel; Theresa Lahousen; Sonja Lackner; Sandra Johanna Holasek; Susanne Astrid Bengesser; Annamaria Painold; Anna Katharina Holl; Eva Reininghaus
30223263|j|Neuropsychobiology
30223263|y|2018
30223263|a|Individuals suffering from psychiatric disorders experience high levels of illness burden and a significantly reduced quality of life. Despite targeted psychopharmacological strategies and complementary psychotherapeutic procedures only moderate effects are obtained, and the risk of relapse is high in many patients. Worldwide, psychiatric diseases such as depression are continuously increasing, challenging the personal life of the affected as well as their families, but also whole societies by increasing disability, early retirement and hospitalization. According to current scientific knowledge psychiatric disorders are caused by a multifactorial pathogenesis, including genetics, inflammation and neurotransmitter imbalance; furthermore, also lifestyle-associated factors gain rising importance. In line with this, there is growing evidence that the gut microbiota and nutrition have an impact on the onset and course of psychiatric disorders. This narrative review highlights the important role of nutrition in psychiatric care and underlines the significance of nutritional advice in the multifactorial, biopsychosocial treatment of patients. It focuses on current dietary interventions such as the Mediterranean diet, dietary supplements and modifications of the gut microbiota with pre-, pro- and postbiotics. Recent studies support the connection between the quality of diet, gut microbiota and mental health through regulation of metabolic functions, anti-inflammatory and antiapoptotic properties and the support of neurogenesis. Dietary coaching to improve mental health seems to be an additional, cost-effective, practical, nonpharmacological intervention for individuals with psychiatric disorders. The use of nutritional interventions in psychiatry equips therapists with a promising tool for both the prevention and treatment of psychiatric disorders. Besides pharmacological therapy, psychotherapy and physical activity, nutritional interventions are an important pillar in the multifactorial, biopsychosocial treatment of psychiatric disease and could be used as a potential therapeutic target.


25567038|t|The gut microbiota and inflammatory noncommunicable diseases: associations and potentials for gut microbiota therapies.
25567038|w|Christina E West; Harald Renz; Maria C Jenmalm; Anita L Kozyrskyj; Katrina J Allen; Peter Vuillermin; Susan L Prescott
25567038|j|The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology
25567038|y|2015
25567038|a|Rapid environmental transition and modern lifestyles are likely driving changes in the biodiversity of the human gut microbiota. With clear effects on physiologic, immunologic, and metabolic processes in human health, aberrations in the gut microbiome and intestinal homeostasis have the capacity for multisystem effects. Changes in microbial composition are implicated in the increasing propensity for a broad range of inflammatory diseases, such as allergic disease, asthma, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), obesity, and associated noncommunicable diseases (NCDs). There are also suggestive implications for neurodevelopment and mental health. These diverse multisystem influences have sparked interest in strategies that might favorably modulate the gut microbiota to reduce the risk of many NCDs. For example, specific prebiotics promote favorable intestinal colonization, and their fermented products have anti-inflammatory properties. Specific probiotics also have immunomodulatory and metabolic effects. However, when evaluated in clinical trials, the effects are variable, preliminary, or limited in magnitude. Fecal microbiota transplantation is another emerging therapy that regulates inflammation in experimental models. In human subjects it has been successfully used in cases of Clostridium difficile infection and IBD, although controlled trials are lacking for IBD. Here we discuss relationships between gut colonization and inflammatory NCDs and gut microbiota modulation strategies for their treatment and prevention.


31609697|t|The Appendix in Parkinson's Disease: From Vestigial Remnant to Vital Organ?
31609697|w|Bryan Killinger; Viviane Labrie
31609697|j|Journal of Parkinson's disease
31609697|y|2019
31609697|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) has long been considered a brain disease, but studies now point to the gastrointestinal (GI) tract as a potential starting point for PD. In particular, the human vermiform appendix has been implicated in PD. The appendix is a tissue rich in immune cells, serving as part of the gut-associated lymphoid tissue and as a storehouse for the gut microbiome. The functions of the appendix converge with recent evidence demonstrating that gut inflammation and shifts in the microbiome are linked to PD. Some epidemiological studies have linked removal of the appendix to lowered PD risk, though there is controversy among these associations. What is apparent is that there is an abundance of aggregated forms of α-synuclein in the appendix relevant to PD pathology. α-Synuclein pathology is thought to propagate from gut to brain via the vagus nerve, which innervates GI tract locations, including the appendix. Remarkably, α-synuclein aggregates in the appendix occur not only in PD patients, but are also present in healthy individuals. This has led to the proposal that in the appendix α-synuclein aggregates are not unique to PD. Moreover, the molecular events leading to PD and the mechanisms by which α-synuclein aggregates transfers from gut to brain may be identifiable in the human appendix. The influence of the appendix on GI inflammation, autoimmunity, microbiome storage, and the lymphatic system may be yet unexplored mechanisms by which the appendix contributes to PD. Overall, the appendix represents a promising tissue site to advance our understanding of PD pathobiology.


31870331|t|The chemo-gut study: investigating the long-term effects of chemotherapy on gut microbiota, metabolic, immune, psychological and cognitive parameters in young adult Cancer survivors; study protocol.
31870331|w|Julie M Deleemans; Faye Chleilat; Raylene A Reimer; Jan-Willem Henning; Mohamad Baydoun; Katherine-Ann Piedalue; Andrew McLennan; Linda E Carlson
31870331|j|BMC cancer
31870331|y|2019
31870331|a|The gut microbiota is an important modulator of immune, metabolic, psychological and cognitive mechanisms. Chemotherapy adversely affects the gut microbiota, inducing acute dysbiosis, and alters physiological and psychological function. Cancer among young adults has risen 38% in recent decades. Understanding chemotherapy's long-term effects on gut microbiota and psycho-physiological function is critical to improve survivors' physical and mental health, but remains unexamined. Restoration of the gut microbiota via targeted therapies (e.g. probiotics) could potentially prevent or reverse the psycho-physiological deficits often found in young survivors following chemotherapy, ultimately leading to reduced symptom burden and improved health. This longitudinal study investigates chemotherapy induced long-term gut dysbiosis, and associations between gut microbiota, and immune, metabolic, cognitive and psychological parameters using data collected at < 2 month (T1), 3-4 months (T2), and 5-6 months (T3) post-chemotherapy. Participants will be 18-39 year old blood or solid tumor cancer survivors (n = 50), and a healthy sibling, partner or friend as a control (n = 50). Gut microbiota composition will be measured from fecal samples using 16 s RNA sequencing. Psychological and cognitive patient reported outcome measures will include depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms, pain, fatigue, and social and cognitive function. Dual-energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA) will be used to measure fat and lean mass, and bone mineral concentration. Pro-inflammatory cytokines, C-reactive protein (CRP), lipopolysaccharide (LPS), serotonin, and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) will be measured in serum, and long-term cortisol will be assayed from hair. Regression and linear mixed model (LMM) analyses will examine associations across time points (T1 - T3), between groups, and covariates with gut microbiota, cognitive, psychological, and physiological parameters. Knowing what bacterial species are depleted after chemotherapy, how long these effects last, and the physiological mechanisms that may drive psychological and cognitive issues among survivors will allow for targeted, integrative interventions to be developed, helping to prevent or reverse some of the late-effects of treatment that many young cancer survivors face. This protocol has been approved by the Health Research Ethics Board of Alberta Cancer Committee (ID: HREBA.CC-19-0018).


32046750|t|Treating impulsivity with probiotics in adults (PROBIA): study protocol of a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
32046750|w|Gara Arteaga-Henríquez; Silvia Karina Rosales-Ortiz; Alejandro Arias-Vásquez; Istvan Bitter; Ylva Ginsberg; Pol Ibañez-Jimenez; Tünde Kilencz; Catharina Lavebratt; Silke Matura; Andreas Reif; Janos Rethelyi; Vanesa Richarte; Nanda Rommelse; Anne Siegl; J Antoni Ramos-Quiroga
32046750|j|Trials
32046750|y|2020
32046750|a|Impulsivity and compulsivity are related to emotional and social maladjustment and often underlie psychiatric disorders. Recently, alterations in microbiota composition have been shown to have implications for brain development and social behavior via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. However, the exact mechanisms are not fully identified. Recent evidence suggests the modulatory effect of synbiotics on gut microbiota and the contribution of these agents in ameliorating symptoms of many psychiatric diseases. To date, no randomized controlled trial has been performed to establish the feasibility and efficacy of this intervention targeting the reduction of impulsivity and compulsivity. We hypothesize that supplementation with synbiotics may be an effective treatment in adults with high levels of impulsivity and/or compulsivity. This is a prospective, multicenter, double-blind, randomized controlled trial with two arms: treatment with a synbiotic formula versus placebo treatment. The primary outcome is the response rate at the end of the placebo-controlled phase (response defined as a Clinical Global Impression-Improvement Scale score of 1 or 2 = very much improved or much improved, plus a reduction in the Affective Reactivity Index total score of at least 30% compared with baseline). A total of 180 participants with highly impulsive behavior and a diagnosis of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and/or borderline personality disorder, aged 18-65 years old, will be screened at three study centers. Secondary outcome measures, including changes in general psychopathology, ADHD symptoms, neurocognitive function, somatic parameters, physical activity, nutritional intake, and health-related quality of life, will be explored at assessments before, during, and at the end of the intervention. The effect of the intervention on genetics, microbiota, and several blood biomarkers will also be assessed. Gastrointestinal symptoms and somatic complaints will additionally be explored at 1-week follow-up. This is the first randomized controlled trial to determine the effects of supplementation with synbiotics on reducing impulsive and compulsive behavior. This clinical trial can contribute to explaining the mechanisms involved in the crosstalk between the intestinal microbiome and the brain. If effects can be established by reducing impulsive and compulsive behavior, new cost-effective treatments might become available to these patients. ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03495375. Registered on 26 February 2018.


37237983|t|Escalating Bi-Directional Feedback Loops between Proinflammatory Microglia and Mitochondria in Ageing and Post-Diagnosis of Parkinson's Disease.
37237983|w|Shane Michael Ravenhill; Andrew Howard Evans; Sheila Gillard Crewther
37237983|j|Antioxidants (Basel, Switzerland)
37237983|y|2023
37237983|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic and progressive age-related neurodegenerative disease affecting up to 3% of the global population over 65 years of age. Currently, the underlying physiological aetiology of PD is unknown. However, the diagnosed disorder shares many common non-motor symptoms associated with ageing-related neurodegenerative disease progression, such as neuroinflammation, microglial activation, neuronal mitochondrial impairment, and chronic autonomic nervous system dysfunction. Clinical PD has been linked to many interrelated biological and molecular processes, such as escalating proinflammatory immune responses, mitochondrial impairment, lower adenosine triphosphate (ATP) availability, increasing release of neurotoxic reactive oxygen species (ROS), impaired blood brain barrier integrity, chronic activation of microglia, and damage to dopaminergic neurons consistently associated with motor and cognitive decline. Prodromal PD has also been associated with orthostatic hypotension and many other age-related impairments, such as sleep disruption, impaired gut microbiome, and constipation. Thus, this review aimed to present evidence linking mitochondrial dysfunction, including elevated oxidative stress, ROS, and impaired cellular energy production, with the overactivation and escalation of a microglial-mediated proinflammatory immune response as naturally occurring and damaging interlinked bidirectional and self-perpetuating cycles that share common pathological processes in ageing and PD. We propose that both chronic inflammation, microglial activation, and neuronal mitochondrial impairment should be considered as concurrently influencing each other along a continuum rather than as separate and isolated linear metabolic events that affect specific aspects of neural processing and brain function.


37548294|t|Challenges and priorities for researching the gut microbiota in individuals living with anorexia nervosa.
37548294|w|Madeline L West; Susan Hart; Amy Loughman; Felice N Jacka; Heidi M Staudacher; Afrouz Abbaspour; Andrea Phillipou; Anu Ruusunen; Tetyana Rocks
37548294|j|The International journal of eating disorders
37548294|y|2023
37548294|a|The gut microbiota is implicated in several symptoms and biological pathways relevant to anorexia nervosa (AN). Investigations into the role of the gut microbiota in AN are growing, with a specific interest in the changes that occur in response to treatment. Findings suggest that microbial species may be associated with some of the symptoms common in AN, such as depression and gastrointestinal disturbances (GID). Therefore, researchers believe the gut microbiota may have therapeutic relevance. Whilst research in this field is rapidly expanding, the unique considerations relevant to conducting gut microbiota research in individuals with AN must be addressed. We provide an overview of the published literature investigating the relationship between the gut microbiota and symptoms and behaviors present in AN, discuss important challenges in gut microbiota research, and offer recommendations for addressing these. We conclude by summarizing research design priorities for the field to move forward. Several ways exist to reduce participant burden and accommodate challenges when researching the gut microbiota in individuals with AN. Recommendations from this article are foreseen to encourage scientific rigor and thoughtful protocol planning for microbiota research in AN, including ways to reduce participant burden. Employing such methods will contribute to a better understanding of the role of the gut microbiota in AN pathophysiology and treatment. The field of gut microbiota research is rapidly expanding, including the role of the gut microbiota in anorexia nervosa. Thoughtful planning of future research will ensure appropriate data collection for meaningful interpretation while providing a positive experience for the participant. We present current challenges, recommendations for research design and priorities to facilitate the advancement of research in this field.


34079079|t|Compositional and genetic alterations in Graves' disease gut microbiome reveal specific diagnostic biomarkers.
34079079|w|Qiyun Zhu; Qiangchuan Hou; Shi Huang; Qianying Ou; Dongxue Huo; Yoshiki Vázquez-Baeza; Chaoping Cen; Victor Cantu; Mehrbod Estaki; Haibo Chang; Pedro Belda-Ferre; Ho-Cheol Kim; Kaining Chen; Rob Knight; Jiachao Zhang
34079079|j|The ISME journal
34079079|y|2021
34079079|a|Graves' Disease is the most common organ-specific autoimmune disease and has been linked in small pilot studies to taxonomic markers within the gut microbiome. Important limitations of this work include small sample sizes and low-resolution taxonomic markers. Accordingly, we studied 162 gut microbiomes of mild and severe Graves' disease (GD) patients and healthy controls. Taxonomic and functional analyses based on metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) and MAG-annotated genes, together with predicted metabolic functions and metabolite profiles, revealed a well-defined network of MAGs, genes and clinical indexes separating healthy from GD subjects. A supervised classification model identified a combination of biomarkers including microbial species, MAGs, genes and SNPs, with predictive power superior to models from any single biomarker type (AUC = 0.98). Global, cross-disease multi-cohort analysis of gut microbiomes revealed high specificity of these GD biomarkers, notably discriminating against Parkinson's Disease, and suggesting that non-invasive stool-based diagnostics will be useful for these diseases.


38488514|t|Ginsenoside Rk3 Regulates Tryptophan Metabolism along the Brain-Gut Axis by Targeting Tryptophan Hydroxylase and Remodeling the Intestinal Microenvironment to Alleviate Depressive-Like Behavior in Mice.
38488514|w|Jingjing Shao; Linlin Qu; Yao Liu; Jingjing Zhang; Yannan Liu; Jianjun Deng; Xiaoxuan Ma; Daidi Fan
38488514|j|Journal of agricultural and food chemistry
38488514|y|2024
38488514|a|Depression is a neuropsychiatric disease that significantly impacts the physical and mental health of >300 million people worldwide and places a major burden on society. Ginsenosides are the main active ingredient in ginseng and have been proven to have various pharmacological effects on the nervous system. Herein, we investigated the antidepressant effect of ginsenoside Rk3 and its underlying mechanism in a murine model of depression. Rk3 significantly improved depression-like behavior in mice, ameliorated the disturbance of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis, and alleviated neuronal damage in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of mice. Additionally, Rk3 improved the abnormal metabolism of tryptophan in brain tissue by targeting tryptophan hydroxylase, thereby reducing neuronal apoptosis and synaptic structural damage in the mouse hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, Rk3 reshaped the composition of the gut microbiota of mice and regulated intestinal tryptophan metabolism, which alleviated intestinal barrier damage. Thus, this study provides valuable insights into the role of Rk3 in the tryptophan metabolic cycle along the brain-gut axis, suggesting that Rk3 may have the potential for treating depression.


32456274|t|Anti-aggregation Effects of Phenolic Compounds on α-synuclein.
32456274|w|Kenjiro Ono; Mayumi Tsuji; Tritia R Yamasaki; Giulio M Pasinetti
32456274|j|Molecules (Basel, Switzerland)
32456274|y|2020
32456274|a|The aggregation and deposition of α-synuclein (αS) are major pathologic features of Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and other α-synucleinopathies. The propagation of αS pathology in the brain plays a key role in the onset and progression of clinical phenotypes. Thus, there is increasing interest in developing strategies that attenuate αS aggregation and propagation. Based on cumulative evidence that αS oligomers are neurotoxic and critical species in the pathogenesis of α-synucleinopathies, we and other groups reported that phenolic compounds inhibit αS aggregation including oligomerization, thereby ameliorating αS oligomer-induced cellular and synaptic toxicities. Heterogeneity in gut microbiota may influence the efficacy of dietary polyphenol metabolism. Our recent studies on the brain-penetrating polyphenolic acids 3-hydroxybenzoic acid (3-HBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-diHBA), and 3-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (3-HPPA), which are derived from gut microbiota-based metabolism of dietary polyphenols, demonstrated an in vitro ability to inhibit αS oligomerization and mediate aggregated αS-induced neurotoxicity. Additionally, 3-HPPA, 3,4-diHBA, 3-HBA, and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid significantly attenuated intracellular αS seeding aggregation in a cell-based system. This review focuses on recent research developments regarding neuroprotective properties, especially anti-αS aggregation effects, of phenolic compounds and their metabolites by the gut microbiome, including our findings in the pathogenesis of α-synucleinopathies.


36875518|t|Disrupted diurnal oscillations of the gut microbiota in patients with alcohol dependence.
36875518|w|Kangqing Zhao; Zhaojun Ni; Ying Qin; Ran Zhu; Zhoulong Yu; Yundong Ma; Wenhao Chen; Qiqing Sun; Zhong Wang; Yanjing Liu; Jingwen Zhao; Wenjuan Peng; Sifan Hu; Jie Shi; Lin Lu; Hongqiang Sun
36875518|j|Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology
36875518|y|2023
36875518|a|Patients with alcohol dependence (AD) can exhibit gut dysbacteria. Dysbacteria may co-occur with disruptions of circadian rhythmicity of the gut flora, which can aggravate AD. Herein, this study aimed to investigate diurnal oscillations of the gut microbiota in AD patients. Thirty-two patients with AD, based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edition, and 20 healthy subjects were enrolled in this study. Demographic and clinical data were collected by self-report questionnaires. Fecal samples at 7:00 AM, 11:00 AM, 3:00 PM, and 7:00 PM were collected from each subject. 16S rDNA sequencing was conducted. Wilcoxon and Kruskal-Wallis tests were performed to characterize alterations and oscillations of the gut microbiota. We found that β-diversity of the gut microbiota in AD patients oscillated diurnally compared with healthy subjects (p = 0.01). Additionally, 0.66% of operational taxonomic units oscillated diurnally in AD patients versus 1.68% in healthy subjects. At different taxonomic levels, bacterial abundance oscillated diurnally in both groups, such as Pseudomonas and Prevotella pallens (all p < 0.05). β-diversity of the gut microbiota in AD patients with high daily alcohol consumption, high-level cravings, short AD durations, and mild withdrawal symptoms oscillated diurnally compared with other AD patients (all p < 0.05). The gut microbiota in AD patients exhibits disruptions of diurnal oscillation, which may provide novel insights into mechanisms of AD and the development of therapeutic strategies.


34042025|t|COVID-19: The Significance of Platelets, Mitochondria, Vitamin D, Serotonin and the Gut Microbiota.
34042025|w|István Bókkon; Gábor Kapócs; András Vucskits; Attila Erdöfi-Szabó; Jan Vagedes; Felix Scholkmann; Henrik Szöke
34042025|j|Current medicinal chemistry
34042025|y|2021
34042025|a|We provide a brief review of the significance of platelets, mitochondria, vitamin D, serotonin, and the gut microbiome in COVID-19. We hypothesize that hyperactive platelets and mitochondrial dysfunction, as well as low vitamin D level, gut dysbiosis, and increased serum serotonin produced by enterochromaffin cells, may all represent important aspects in the pathophysiology of COVID-19.


31952509|t|The progress of gut microbiome research related to brain disorders.
31952509|w|Sibo Zhu; Yanfeng Jiang; Kelin Xu; Mei Cui; Weimin Ye; Genming Zhao; Li Jin; Xingdong Chen
31952509|j|Journal of neuroinflammation
31952509|y|2020
31952509|a|There is increasing evidence showing that the dynamic changes in the gut microbiota can alter brain physiology and behavior. Cognition was originally thought to be regulated only by the central nervous system. However, it is now becoming clear that many non-nervous system factors, including the gut-resident bacteria of the gastrointestinal tract, regulate and influence cognitive dysfunction as well as the process of neurodegeneration and cerebrovascular diseases. Extrinsic and intrinsic factors including dietary habits can regulate the composition of the microbiota. Microbes release metabolites and microbiota-derived molecules to further trigger host-derived cytokines and inflammation in the central nervous system, which contribute greatly to the pathogenesis of host brain disorders such as pain, depression, anxiety, autism, Alzheimer's diseases, Parkinson's disease, and stroke. Change of blood-brain barrier permeability, brain vascular physiology, and brain structure are among the most critical causes of the development of downstream neurological dysfunction. In this review, we will discuss the following parts: Overview of technical approaches used in gut microbiome studiesMicrobiota and immunityGut microbiota and metabolitesMicrobiota-induced blood-brain barrier dysfunctionNeuropsychiatric diseases ■ Stress and depression■ Pain and migraine■ Autism spectrum disordersNeurodegenerative diseases ■ Parkinson's disease■ Alzheimer's disease■ Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis■ Multiple sclerosisCerebrovascular disease ■ Atherosclerosis■ Stroke■ Arteriovenous malformationConclusions and perspectives.


36843420|t|Inflammatory Bowel Disease and Neurodegenerative Diseases.
36843420|w|Jin Sun Kim; Mu-Hong Chen; Hohui E Wang; Ching-Liang Lu; Yen-Po Wang; Bing Zhang
36843420|j|Gut and liver
36843420|y|2023
36843420|a|A growing body of evidence has demonstrated an intricate association between inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and neurodegenerative conditions, expanding beyond previous foci of comorbidities between IBD and mood disorders. These new discoveries stem from an improved understanding of the gut-microbiome-brain axis: specifically, the ability of the intestinal microbiota to modulate inflammation and regulate neuromodulatory compounds. Clinical retrospective studies incorporating large sample sizes and population-based cohorts have demonstrated and confirmed the relevance of IBD and chronic neurodegeneration in clinical medicine. In this review, we expound upon the current knowledge on the gut-microbiome-brain axis, highlighting several plausible mechanisms linking IBD with neurodegeneration. We also summarize the known associations between IBD with Parkinson disease, Alzheimer disease, vascular dementia and ischemic stroke, and multiple sclerosis in a clinical context. Finally, we discuss the implications of an improved understanding of the gut-microbiome-brain axis in preventing, diagnosing, and managing neurodegeneration among IBD and non-IBD patients.


37447374|t|Serotonin Transporter (SERT) Expression Modulates the Composition of the Western-Diet-Induced Microbiota in Aged Female Mice.
37447374|w|Mirjam Bloemendaal; Ekaterina Veniaminova; Daniel C Anthony; Anna Gorlova; Priscilla Vlaming; Adel Khairetdinova; Raymond Cespuglio; Klaus Peter Lesch; Alejandro Arias Vasquez; Tatyana Strekalova
37447374|j|Nutrients
37447374|y|2023
37447374|a|<b>Background.</b> The serotonin transporter (SERT), highly expressed in the gut and brain, is implicated in metabolic processes. A genetic variant of the upstream regulatory region of the <i>SLC6A4</i> gene encoding SERT, the so-called short (s) allele, in comparison with the long (l) allele, results in the decreased function of this transporter, altered serotonergic regulation, an increased risk of psychiatric pathology and type-2 diabetes and obesity, especially in older women. Aged female mice with the complete (<i>Sert</i><sup>-/-</sup>: KO) or partial (<i>Sert</i><sup>+/-</sup>: HET) loss of SERT exhibit more pronounced negative effects following their exposure to a Western diet in comparison to wild-type (<i>Sert</i><sup>+/+</sup>: WT) animals. <b>Aims.</b> We hypothesized that these effects might be mediated by an altered gut microbiota, which has been shown to influence serotonin metabolism. We performed V4 16S rRNA sequencing of the gut microbiota in 12-month-old WT, KO and HET female mice that were housed on a control or Western diet for three weeks. <b>Results.</b> The relative abundance of 11 genera was increased, and the abundance of 6 genera was decreased in the Western-diet-housed mice compared to the controls. There were correlations between the abundance of <i>Streptococcus</i> and <i>Ruminococcaceae_UCG-014</i> and the expression of the pro-inflammatory marker Toll-like-Receptor 4 (<i>Tlr4</i>) in the dorsal raphe, as well as the expression of the mitochondrial activity marker perixome-proliferator-activated-receptor-cofactor-1b (<i>Ppargc1b</i>) in the prefrontal cortex. Although there was no significant impact of genotype on the microbiota in animals fed with the Control diet, there were significant interactions between diet and genotype. Following FDR correction, the Western diet increased the relative abundance of <i>Intestinimonas</i> and <i>Atopostipes</i> in the KO animals, which was not observed in the other groups. <i>Erysipelatoclostridium</i> abundance was increased by the Western diet in the WT group but not in HET or KO animals. <b>Conclusions.</b> The enhanced effects of a challenge with a Western diet in SERT-deficient mice include the altered representation of several gut genera, such as <i>Intestinimonas</i>, <i>Atopostipes</i> and <i>Erysipelatoclostridium</i>, which are also implicated in serotonergic and lipid metabolism. The manipulation of these genera may prove useful in individuals with the short SERT allele.


38722169|t|Preface: Special issue: "Ion channels and genetic epilepsy".
38722169|w|Christopher A Reid
38722169|j|Journal of neurochemistry
38722169|y|2024
38722169|a|This preface introduces the Journal of Neurochemistry Special Issue on Advances in Epilepsy Research. Epilepsy is a devastating disease characterized by recurrent seizures. Despite the addition of numerous therapeutics over the last few decades epilepsy patients resistant to standard of care treatments remains stubbornly high. This highlights a clear unmet clinical need and the importance of new research into this disease. One major advance over the last two decades has been the recognition that genetic factors play a significant role in the underlying pathogenesis of epilepsy. Much of our insights into the pathogenic mechanisms underlying genetic epilepsy has come from research into genes that encode ion channels. In this issue, there are up-to-date reviews discussing epilepsy caused by variation in HCN channels, voltage-dependent sodium channels, voltage-dependent calcium channels, and GABA<sub>A</sub> receptors. The reviews highlight our understanding of the genotype-phenotype relationships and the identification of precision medicine approaches. Complimenting this is a review on metabolic aspects modulating ion channels in genetic disease. This issue also has fundamental research manuscripts investigating how currently approved drugs may rescue NMDA receptor dysfunction and how in vitro neuron cultures can be used to probe network scale deficits and drug impacts in SCN2A disease. Other primary data manuscripts include those focusing on metabolic therapies, gut microbiota, and new in vivo screening tools for identifying novel anti-seizure drugs. Collectively, manuscripts published as part of this edition highlight recent research gains, especially in our understanding of genetic causes of epilepsy involving ion channels.


37004759|t|Gut-derived bacterial LPS attenuates incubation of methamphetamine craving via modulating microglia.
37004759|w|Zhoulong Yu; Wenjun Chen; Libo Zhang; Yun Chen; Wenxi Chen; Shiqiu Meng; Lin Lu; Ying Han; Jie Shi
37004759|j|Brain, behavior, and immunity
37004759|y|2023
37004759|a|The microbiota-gut-brain axis plays a critical role in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders, and the compositions of gut microbiota are altered by addictive drugs. However, the role of gut microbiota in the incubation of methamphetamine (METH) craving remains poorly understood. 16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed to assess the richness and diversity of gut microbiota in METH self-administration model. Hematoxylin and eosin staining was performed to evaluate the integrity of intestinal barrier. Immunofluorescence and three-dimensional reconstruction were performed to assess the morphologic changes of microglia. Serum levels of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) were determined using the rat enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed to assess transcript levels of dopamine receptor, glutamate ionotropic AMPA receptor 3 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. METH self-administration induced gut microbiota dysbiosis, intestinal barrier damage and microglia activation in the nucleus accumbens core (NAcc), which was partially recovered after prolonged withdrawal. Microbiota depletion via antibiotic treatment increased LPS levels and induced a marked change in the microglial morphology in the NAcc, as indicated by the decreases in the lengths and numbers of microglial branches. Depleting the gut microbiota also prevented the incubation of METH craving and increased the population of Klebsiella oxytoca. Furthermore, Klebsiella oxytoca treatment or exogenous administration of the gram-negative bacterial cell wall component LPS increased serum and central LPS levels, induced microglial morphological changes and reduced the dopamine receptor transcription in the NAcc. Both treatments and NAcc microinjections of gut-derived bacterial LPS significantly decreased METH craving after prolonged withdrawal. These data suggest that LPS from gut gram-negative bacteria may enter circulating blood, activate microglia in the brain and consequently decrease METH craving after withdrawal, which may have important implications for novel strategies to prevent METH addiction and relapse.


38693730|t|Probiotics for Inflammatory Bowel Disease; A Deep Dive into their Impact on Disease Course and Associated Health Risks.
38693730|w|Wassan Nori Mohammed Hassan; Methaq Mueen Al-Kaabi; Nabeeha Najatee Akram; Mustafa Ali Kassim Kassim; Alexandru Cosmin Pantazi
38693730|j|Current medicinal chemistry
38693730|y|2024
38693730|a|To date, the underlying pathology of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is undetermined. Disturbance of intestinal gut microbiota was implicated in many health diseases, including IBD. Increasing evidence suggests that probiotics play a beneficial role in restoring the balance of the gut ecosystem. This review searched multiple databases for relevant works that examined probiotics' possible benefits in adults with IBD. Probiotic mode of action in ulcerative colitis patients and Crohn's disease were examined with respect to probiotic strain, their benefits, and their advantages in adult cases. Eligible studies for inclusion were assessed and analyzed. They were effective in reducing IBD disease course, inducing and maintaining remission, particularly for ulcerative colitis patients, with good efficacy and safety profile. However, the evidence for Crohn's disease was lacking. Probiotics positively affect IBD-related risks, reducing the risk of gastrointestinal malignancy and optimizing treating them. Additionally, they improved reduced fertility odds for both genders. The osteoporosis risk among IBD patients was also reduced, although the duration of use and dose were still not established. There was an encouraging role for them in reducing IBD -cardiovascular risks among cases with acute myocardial infarction and those with chronic heart failure. Finally, they had novel use in reducing IBD-related depression and improved overall mental health. In conclusion, we recommend probiotics as an adjuvant therapeutic option for IBD therapy for ulcerative colitis; however, their role in Crohn's disease needs further research.


36235760|t|Dietary Restriction against Parkinson's Disease: What We Know So Far.
36235760|w|Zhonglei Wang; Yueran Cui; Lulu Wen; Haiyang Yu; Juan Feng; Wei Yuan; Xin He
36235760|j|Nutrients
36235760|y|2022
36235760|a|Dietary restriction (DR) is defined as a moderate reduction in food intake while avoiding malnutrition. The beneficial effects of DR are being increasingly acknowledged in aging and in a series of age-related neurodegenerative disorders, for example, Parkinson's disease (PD). To date, the pathogenesis of PD remains elusive and there is no cure for it in spite of intensive research over decades. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge on the efficacy of DR on PD, focusing on the underlying mechanisms involving general metabolism, neuroendocrinolgy, neuroinflammation, gut microbiome, and so on. We anticipate that this review will provide future perspectives for PD prevention and treatment.


33407119|t|Alterations in the intestinal microbiome and mental health status of workers in an underground tunnel environment.
33407119|w|Zhen-Hua Lu; Yi-Wen Liu; Zhao-Hua Ji; Ting Fu; Min Yan; Zhong-Jun Shao; Yong Long
33407119|j|BMC microbiology
33407119|y|2021
33407119|a|Working in an underground tunnel environment is unavoidable in professions such as miners and tunnel workers, and there is a concern about the health of these workers. Few studies have addressed alterations in the intestinal microbiome of workers within that environment. Fecal samples were collected from the workers before they entered the tunnel (baseline status, BS) and after they left the tunnel (exposed status, ES), respectively (a time period of 3 weeks between them). We analyzed 16S rRNA sequencing to show the changes in microbial composition and self-evaluation of mental health questionnaire was also performed. The results showed that Shannon and Simpson indices decreased significantly from BS to ES. A higher abundance was found in the phylum Actinobacteria, classes Actinobacteria and Deltaproteobacteria, orders Bifidobacteriales, Coriobacteriales, and Desulfovibrionales, families Bifidobacteriaceae, Peptostreptococcaceae, Coriobacteriaceae, Clostridiaceae_1, Desulfovibrionaceae, Pseudomonadaceae, and Microbacteriaceae, and genera Bifidobacterium, Romboutsia, Clostridium sensu stricto, and Leucobacter in ES, while BS showed greater levels of genera Faecalibacterium and Roseburia. The self-evaluation showed that at least one-half of the tunnel workers experienced one or more symptoms of mental distress (inattention, sleeplessness, loss of appetite, headache or dizziness, irritability) after working in the underground tunnel environment. Collectively, the underground tunnel environment led to alterations in the intestinal microbiome, which might be relevant to symptoms of mental distress in underground-tunnel workers.


27793226|t|Gut Microbiome and Behavior: Focus on Neuroimmune Interactions.
27793226|w|J A Foster
27793226|j|International review of neurobiology
27793226|y|2016
27793226|a|As neuroscientists, psychologists, and psychiatrists are starting to appreciate the importance of the gut microbiota to mental health, it is critical to determine the mechanisms of microbiota to brain communication and thereby provide a better understanding of the aspects that may be modifiable with proper intervention in individuals with mental illness. Microbiota-brain communication is emerging as an important factor in brain development and function. Further, immune dysfunction is clearly established to play a role in mental illness. Investigators in the field have established expertise in studying the microbiota, the immune system, brain, and behavior and are poised to contribute significant novel findings to our understanding of microbiota-immune-brain communication in mental illness. This chapter provides a review of the literature related to the influence of microbiota-immune-brain communication to behavior. This research has a clear translational relevance for mental health, contributing to extant findings that indicate a role for the microbiome in brain development and behavior.


38004795|t|A Catastrophic Biodiversity Loss in the Environment Is Being Replicated on the Skin Microbiome: Is This a Major Contributor to the Chronic Disease Epidemic?
38004795|w|Christopher Wallen-Russell; Nancy Pearlman; Samuel Wallen-Russell; Dragos Cretoiu; Dana Claudia Thompson; Silviu Cristian Voinea
38004795|j|Microorganisms
38004795|y|2023
38004795|a|There has been a catastrophic loss of biodiversity in ecosystems across the world. A similar crisis has been observed in the human gut microbiome, which has been linked to "all human diseases affecting westernized countries". This is of great importance because chronic diseases are the leading cause of death worldwide and make up 90% of America's healthcare costs. Disease development is complex and multifactorial, but there is one part of the body's interlinked ecosystem that is often overlooked in discussions about whole-body health, and that is the skin microbiome. This is despite it being a crucial part of the immune, endocrine, and nervous systems and being continuously exposed to environmental stressors. Here we show that a parallel biodiversity loss of 30-84% has occurred on the skin of people in the developed world compared to our ancestors. Research has shown that dysbiosis of the skin microbiome has been linked to many common skin diseases and, more recently, that it could even play an active role in the development of a growing number of whole-body health problems, such as food allergies, asthma, cardiovascular diseases, and Parkinson's, traditionally thought unrelated to the skin. Damaged skin is now known to induce systemic inflammation, which is involved in many chronic diseases. We highlight that biodiversity loss is not only a common finding in dysbiotic ecosystems but also a type of dysbiosis. As a result, we make the case that biodiversity loss in the skin microbiome is a major contributor to the chronic disease epidemic. The link between biodiversity loss and dysbiosis forms the basis of this paper's focus on the subject. The key to understanding why biodiversity loss creates an unhealthy system could be highlighted by complex physics. We introduce entropy to help understand why biodiversity has been linked with ecosystem health and stability. Meanwhile, we also introduce ecosystems as being governed by "non-linear physics" principles-including chaos theory-which suggests that every individual part of any system is intrinsically linked and implies any disruption to a small part of the system (skin) could have a significant and unknown effect on overall system health (whole-body health). Recognizing the link between ecosystem health and human health allows us to understand how crucial it could be to maintain biodiversity across systems everywhere, from the macro-environment we inhabit right down to our body's microbiome. Further, in-depth research is needed so we can aid in the treatment of chronic diseases and potentially change how we think about our health. With millions of people currently suffering, research to help mitigate the crisis is of vital importance.


36571897|t|Repeated use of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine is associated with the resilience in mice after chronic social defeat stress: A role of gut-microbiota-brain axis.
36571897|w|Youge Qu; Akifumi Eguchi; Xiayun Wan; Li Ma; Lijia Chang; Jiajing Shan; Yong Yang; Chisato Mori; Kenji Hashimoto
36571897|j|Psychiatry research
36571897|y|2023
36571897|a|3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), the most widely used illicit compound worldwide, is the most attractive therapeutic drug for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Recent observational studies of US adults demonstrated that lifetime MDMA use was associated with lower risk of depression. Here, we examined whether repeated administration of MDMA can affect resilience versus susceptibility in mice exposed to chronic social defeat stress (CSDS). CSDS produced splenomegaly, anhedonia-like phenotype, and higher plasma levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in the saline-treated mice. In contrast, CSDS did not cause these changes in the MDMA-treated mice. Analysis of gut microbiome found several microbes altered between saline + CSDS group and MDMA + CSDS group. Untargeted metabolomics analysis showed that plasma levels of N-epsilon-methyl-L-lysine in the saline + CSDS group were significantly higher than those in the control and MDMA + CSDS groups. Interestingly, there were positive correlations between plasma IL-6 levels and the abundance of several microbes (or plasma N-epsilon-methyl-L-lysine) in the three groups. Furthermore, there were also positive correlations between the abundance of several microbes and N-epsilon-methyl-L-lysine in the three groups. In conclusion, these data suggest that repeated administration of MDMA might contribute to stress resilience in mice subjected to CSDS through gut-microbiota-brain axis.


34550085|t|The Safety and Efficacy of Microbial Ecosystem Therapeutic-2 in People With Major Depression: Protocol for a Phase 2, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study.
34550085|w|Arthi Chinna Meyyappan; Cassandra Sgarbossa; Gustavo Vazquez; David J Bond; Daniel J Müller; Roumen Milev
34550085|j|JMIR research protocols
34550085|y|2021
34550085|a|The gut-brain axis is a bidirectional signaling pathway between the gastrointestinal tract and the brain; it is being studied because of its potential influence in mediating mood, anxiety, and other neuropsychiatric symptoms. Previous research examining the effects of gut microbiota on neuropsychiatric disorders suggests that gut repopulation treatments such as probiotics, microbe therapy, and fecal microbiota transplantation show promising results in treating symptoms of anxiety and depression. This study explores the use of an alternative gut repopulation treatment to fecal microbiota transplantation, known as Microbial Ecosystem Therapeutic (MET)-2, as an intervention against symptoms of depression. MET-2 is a daily, orally administered capsule containing 40 bacterial strains purified from a single healthy donor. The primary aim of this study is to assess changes in mood in people with major depression that occur pre-, post-, and during the administration of MET-2. The secondary aims are to assess changes in anxiety symptoms, blood biomarker concentrations, and the level of repopulation of healthy gut bacteria as a response to treatment. In this study, we will recruit 60 adults aged between 18 and 45 years old with major depression and randomly assign them to treatment or placebo groups. Patients in the treatment group will receive MET-2 once a day for 6 weeks, whereas patients in the placebo group will receive a matching placebo for 6 weeks. Participants will complete biweekly visits during the treatment period and a follow-up visit at 2 weeks post treatment. As a primary outcome measure, participants' mood will be assessed using the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale. Secondary outcome measures include changes in mood, anxiety, early stress, gastrointestinal symptoms, and tolerability of MET-2 treatment using a series of clinical scales and changes in blood markers, particularly immunoglobulins (Igs; IgA, IgG, and IgM) and inflammatory markers (C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor-α, transforming growth factor-β, interleukin-6, and interleukin-10). Changes in the relative abundance, diversity, and level of engraftment in fecal samples will be assessed using 16S rRNA sequencing. All data will be integrated to identify biomarkers that could indicate disease state or predict improvement in depressive symptoms in response to MET-2 treatment. Given the association between the gut microbiome and depression, we hypothesized that participants receiving MET-2 would experience greater improvement in depressive symptoms than those receiving placebo owing to the recolonization of the gut microbiome with healthy bacteria modulating the gut-brain axis connection. This study is the first of its kind to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a microbial therapy such as MET-2 in comparison with placebo for major depressive disorder. We hope that this study will also reveal the potential capabilities of microbial therapies to treat other psychiatric illnesses and mood disorders. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04602715; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04602715. DERR1-10.2196/31439.


34589731|t|Abnormalities of the composition of the gut microbiota and short-chain fatty acids in mice after splenectomy.
34589731|w|Yan Wei; Lijia Chang; Tamaki Ishima; Xiayun Wan; Li Ma; Gerile Wuyun; Yaoyu Pu; Kenji Hashimoto
34589731|j|Brain, behavior, & immunity - health
34589731|y|2021
34589731|a|The brain-gut-microbiota axis is a complex multi-organ bidirectional signaling system between the brain and microbiota that participates in the host immune system. The spleen, as the largest immune organ in the body, has a key role in the brain-gut-microbiota axis. Here, we investigated whether splenectomy could affect depression-like phenotypes and the composition of the gut microbiota in adult mice. In behavioral tests, splenectomy did not cause depression-like behaviors in mice. Conversely, splenectomy led to significant alterations in the diversity of gut microbes compared with the findings in control (no surgery) and sham-operated mice. In an unweighted UniFrac distance analysis, the boxplots representing the splenectomy group were distant from those representing the other two groups. We found differences in abundance for several bacteria in the splenectomy group at the taxonomic level compared with the other two groups. Finally, splenectomy induced significant changes in lactic acid and n-butyric acid levels compared with those in the other groups. Interestingly, there were significant correlations between the counts of certain bacteria and lactic acid (or n-butyric acid) levels in all groups. These data suggest that splenectomy leads to an abnormal composition of the gut microbiota. It is likely that the spleen-gut-microbiota axis plays a crucial role in the composition of the gut microbiota by regulating immune homeostasis.


37569349|t|Microbial Reprogramming in Obsessive-Compulsive Disorders: A Review of Gut-Brain Communication and Emerging Evidence.
37569349|w|Ghizlane Bendriss; Ross MacDonald; Clare McVeigh
37569349|j|International journal of molecular sciences
37569349|y|2023
37569349|a|Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a debilitating mental health disorder characterized by intrusive thoughts (obsessions) and repetitive behaviors (compulsions). Dysbiosis, an imbalance in the gut microbial composition, has been associated with various health conditions, including mental health disorders, autism, and inflammatory diseases. While the exact mechanisms underlying OCD remain unclear, this review presents a growing body of evidence suggesting a potential link between dysbiosis and the multifaceted etiology of OCD, interacting with genetic, neurobiological, immunological, and environmental factors. This review highlights the emerging evidence implicating the gut microbiota in the pathophysiology of OCD and its potential as a target for novel therapeutic approaches. We propose a model that positions dysbiosis as the central unifying element in the neurochemical, immunological, genetic, and environmental factors leading to OCD. The potential and challenges of microbial reprogramming strategies, such as probiotics and fecal transplants in OCD therapeutics, are discussed. This review raises awareness of the importance of adopting a holistic approach that considers the interplay between the gut and the brain to develop interventions that account for the multifaceted nature of OCD and contribute to the advancement of more personalized approaches.


35393656|t|The human microbiome in disease and pathology.
35393656|w|Jim Manos
35393656|j|APMIS : acta pathologica, microbiologica, et immunologica Scandinavica
35393656|y|2022
35393656|a|This narrative review seeks to examine the relationships between bacterial microbiomes and infectious disease. This is achieved by detailing how different human host microbiomes develop and function, from the earliest infant acquisitions of maternal and environmental species through to the full development of microbiomes by adulthood. Communication between bacterial species or communities of species within and outside of the microbiome is a factor in both maintenance of homeostasis and management of threats from the external environment. Dysbiosis of this homeostasis is key to understanding the development of disease states. Several microbiomes and the microbiota within are used as prime examples of how changes in species composition, particularly at the phylum level, leads to such diverse conditions as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), type 2 diabetes, psoriasis, Parkinson's disease, reflux oesophagitis and others. The review examines spatial relationships between microbiomes to understand how dysbiosis in the gut microbiome in particular can influence diseases in distant host sites via routes such as the gut-lung, gut-skin and gut-brain axes. Microbiome interaction with host processes such as adaptive immunity is increasingly identified as critical to developing the capacity of the immune system to react to pathogens. Dysbiosis of essential bacteria involved in modification of host substrates such as bile acid components can result in development of Crohn's disease, small intestine bacterial overgrowth, hepatic cancer and obesity. Interactions between microbiomes in distantly located sites are being increasingly being identified, resulting in a 'whole of body' effect by the combined host microbiome.


32485204|t|Probiotic treatment (Bifidobacterium longum subsp. longum 35624™) affects stress responsivity in male rats after chronic corticosterone exposure.
32485204|w|Gabriel S Haas; Wan Wang; Malak Saffar; Sean M Mooney-Leber; Susanne Brummelte
32485204|j|Behavioural brain research
32485204|y|2020
32485204|a|Mounting evidence suggests that gut microbiota do not only regulate intestinal function and health, but that they also play a role in mental health via the gut-brain axis. Previous research further suggests that probiotics may have beneficial health effects, but more research is needed to confirm these beneficial effects and better understand the underlying mechanisms and potential sex differences in the response to probiotics. Therefore, the current study investigates the effects of chronic administration of the commercially available probiotic Bifidobacterium longum subsp. longum 35624™(B. 35624) to male and female rats under control or "stressed" conditions. For this, 24 male and 24 female Sprague-Dawley rats were either given daily corticosterone injections (40 mg/kg; to induce depressive-like behavior and a "stressed" condition) or oil injections (controls) together with oral administration of B.35624 or vehicle for 21 days (n = 5-7/group). Animals performed the Open Field Test (OFT) and Forced Swim Test (FST) and several blood samples were collected to investigate basal as well as stress-induced corticosterone levels. Rats were sacrificed on day 22 and their brains sliced and stained with doublecortin, a marker of immature neurons. Results showed that B.35624 was not able to rescue depressive-like behavior or induce changes in neurogenesis in males or females, but the probiotic impacted hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis functioning in male animals and tended to reduce anxiolytic behavior in the OFT. More research is needed to further elucidate the potential health effects of probiotics especially in regard to possible sex differences.


37007475|t|Influence of mental health medication on microbiota in the elderly population in the Valencian region.
37007475|w|Nicole Pesantes; Ana Barberá; Benjamí Pérez-Rocher; Alejandro Artacho; Sergio Luís Vargas; Andrés Moya; Susana Ruiz-Ruiz
37007475|j|Frontiers in microbiology
37007475|y|2023
37007475|a|Spain has an aging population; 19.93% of the Spanish population is over 65. Aging is accompanied by several health issues, including mental health disorders and changes in the gut microbiota. The gut-brain axis is a bidirectional network linking the central nervous system with gastrointestinal tract functions, and therefore, the gut microbiota can influence an individual's mental health. Furthermore, aging-related physiological changes affect the gut microbiota, with differences in taxa and their associated metabolic functions between younger and older people. Here, we took a case-control approach to study the interplay between gut microbiota and mental health of elderly people. Fecal and saliva samples from 101 healthy volunteers over 65 were collected, of which 28 (EE|MH group) reported using antidepressants or medication for anxiety or insomnia at the time of sampling. The rest of the volunteers (EE|NOMH group) were the control group. 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metagenomic sequencing were applied to determine the differences between intestinal and oral microbiota. Significant differences in genera were found, specifically eight in the gut microbiota, and five in the oral microbiota. Functional analysis of fecal samples showed differences in five orthologous genes related to tryptophan metabolism, the precursor of serotonin and melatonin, and in six categories related to serine metabolism, a precursor of tryptophan. Moreover, we found 29 metabolic pathways with significant inter-group differences, including pathways regulating longevity, the dopaminergic synapse, the serotoninergic synapse, and two amino acids.


37951975|t|Effect of inulin supplementation on clinical symptoms, inflammatory and oxidative stress markers in women with migraine: study protocol for a randomized clinical trial.
37951975|w|Mahdi Vajdi; Fariborz Khorvash; Mohammad Hossein Rouhani; Abed Ghavami; Cain C T Clark; Gholamreza Askari
37951975|j|Trials
37951975|y|2023
37951975|a|Migraine is a complex, chronic, and debilitating multifactorial disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of headache and related symptoms. It typically begins in early ages and is more prevalent in women than in men. Recently, the gut-brain axis has emerged as a new candidate that may be linked to neurological diseases. We hypothesize that selective modulation of the intestinal microbiota, oxidative stress, and inflammation through inulin supplementation may improve clinical outcomes in these patients. Therefore, this study aims to examine the effects of high-performance inulin supplementation on clinical symptoms, mental health, quality of life (QOL), intestinal permeability, and inflammatory and oxidative stress factors in women with migraine. This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial involving 80 women with migraine who meet the inclusion criteria (aged between 20 and 50 years with a diagnosis of migraine by a neurologist based on the ICDH-3). Participants will be assigned to receive a daily dose of 10 g of inulin for 12 weeks (intervention group, n = 40) or 10 g of maltodextrin as a placebo for the same duration (control group, n = 40). The primary outcome will measure the variations in the frequency of headache experienced by the patients. Secondary outcomes will encompass serum levels of zonulin, high-sensitive C-reactive protein, total antioxidant capacity, total oxidant status, nitric oxide, mental status, QOL, duration, and severity of migraine attacks. This clinical trial aims to evaluate the effect of inulin supplementation on inflammatory status, oxidative stress, intestinal permeability, clinical symptoms, mental health, and QOL in women with migraine. The findings of this trial could contribute to the identification of mechanistic action and evidence-based clinical guidelines that address gut microbiota manipulation to maximize health benefits in the management of clinical outcomes in migraine patients. Iranian Registry of Clinical Trials ( www.irct.ir ) (ID: IRCT20121216011763N58). Registration date: 23 April 2023. The protocol is version 3.0, September 17, 2023. Recruitment began August 21, 2023, and is anticipated to be completed by March 22, 2024.


38648770|t|Role of the Gut Microbiome and Bacterial Amyloids in the Development of Synucleinopathies.
38648770|w|Nina P Trubitsina; Anton B Matiiv; Tatyana M Rogoza; Anna A Zudilova; Mariya D Bezgina; Galina A Zhouravleva; Stanislav A Bondarev
38648770|j|Biochemistry. Biokhimiia
38648770|y|2024
38648770|a|Less than ten years ago, evidence began to accumulate about association between the changes in the composition of gut microbiota and development of human synucleinopathies, in particular sporadic form of Parkinson's disease. We collected data from more than one hundred and thirty experimental studies that reported similar results and summarized the frequencies of detection of different groups of bacteria in these studies. It is important to note that it is extremely rare that a unidirectional change in the population of one or another group of microorganisms (only an elevation or only a reduction) was detected in the patients with Parkinson's disease. However, we were able to identify several groups of bacteria that were overrepresented in the patients with Parkinson's disease in the analyzed studies. There are various hypotheses about the molecular mechanisms that explain such relationships. Usually, α-synuclein aggregation is associated with the development of inflammatory processes that occur in response to the changes in the microbiome. However, experimental evidence is accumulating on the influence of bacterial proteins, including amyloids (curli), as well as various metabolites, on the α-synuclein aggregation. In the review, we provided up-to-date information about such examples.


25847918|t|Leaky intestine and impaired microbiome in an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mouse model.
25847918|w|Shaoping Wu; Jianxun Yi; Yong-Guo Zhang; Jingsong Zhou; Jun Sun
25847918|j|Physiological reports
25847918|y|2015
25847918|a|Emerging evidence has demonstrated that intestinal homeostasis and the microbiome play essential roles in neurological diseases, such as Parkinson's disease. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by a progressive loss of motor neurons and muscle atrophy. Currently, there is no effective treatment. Most patients die within 3-5 years due to respiratory paralysis. Although the death of motor neurons is a hallmark of ALS, other organs may also contribute to the disease progression. We examined the gut of an ALS mouse model, G93A, which expresses mutant superoxide dismutase (SOD1(G93A)), and discovered a damaged tight junction structure and increased permeability with a significant reduction in the expression levels of tight junction protein ZO-1 and the adherens junction protein E-cadherin. Furthermore, our data demonstrated increased numbers of abnormal Paneth cells in the intestine of G93A mice. Paneth cells are specialized intestinal epithelial cells that can sense microbes and secrete antimicrobial peptides, thus playing key roles in host innate immune responses and shaping the gut microbiome. A decreased level of the antimicrobial peptides defensin 5 alpha was indeed found in the ALS intestine. These changes were associated with a shifted profile of the intestinal microbiome, including reduced levels of Butyrivibrio Fibrisolvens, Escherichia coli, and Fermicus, in G93A mice. The relative abundance of bacteria was shifted in G93A mice compared to wild-type mice. Principal coordinate analysis indicated a difference in fecal microbial communities between ALS and wild-type mice. Taken together, our study suggests a potential novel role of the intestinal epithelium and microbiome in the progression of ALS.


36502554|t|Antibiotic use and the development of depression: A systematic review.
36502554|w|Mahsa Pouranayatihosseinabad; Yihienew Bezabih; Jason Hawrelak; Gregory M Peterson; Felicity Veal; Corinne Mirkazemi
36502554|j|Journal of psychosomatic research
36502554|y|2023
36502554|a|Increasingly, disruption of the gastrointestinal ecosystem is thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of several medical conditions, including depression. Antibiotics can induce substantial changes in the gastrointestinal microbiota and several lines of evidence suggest that antibiotics exposure may increase the risk of developing depression. This systematic review examined this potential association. PubMed, Ovid EMBASE, CINAHL, and PsychINFO databases, as well as unpublished resources, were searched for studies in humans published from 2000 onwards. The studies needed to consider the connection between antibiotic exposure (either alone or in combination with other antibiotics and medications) and the development of depressive symptoms and/or disorders (in isolation to other psychological conditions). Nine studies met the eligibility criteria. All were observational in nature. The studies were conducted in different age groups with various indications for receiving antibiotics. Together, these relatively low-quality studies suggest a potential association between antibiotic exposure and subsequent development of depression symptoms. Specifically, studies from the United Kingdom and Sweden indicate that the risk of depression is increased by at least 20%, with the former (over 1 million participants) reporting an increased risk with the number of courses and agents used, that persists with a slow decline over the ten years following exposure. The inherent limitations associated with the studies' methodologies make a reliable conclusion difficult. While the risk of antimicrobial resistance may prohibit large randomised clinical trials in healthy individuals, future placebo-controlled trials with antibiotics-based protocols (e.g. for acne) should explore their effect on mental health.


38627687|t|Ambient long-term exposure to organophosphorus pesticides and the human gut microbiome: an observational study.
38627687|w|Keren Zhang; Kimberly Paul; Jonathan P Jacobs; Myles G Cockburn; Jeff M Bronstein; Irish Del Rosario; Beate Ritz
38627687|j|Environmental health : a global access science source
38627687|y|2024
38627687|a|Organophosphorus pesticides (OP) have been associated with various human health conditions. Animal experiments and in-vitro models suggested that OP may also affect the gut microbiota. We examined associations between ambient chronic exposure to OP and gut microbial changes in humans. We recruited 190 participants from a community-based epidemiologic study of Parkinson's disease living in a region known for heavy agricultural pesticide use in California. Of these, 61% of participants had Parkinson's disease and their mean age was 72 years. Microbiome and predicted metagenome data were generated by 16S rRNA gene sequencing of fecal samples. Ambient long-term OP exposures were assessed using pesticide application records combined with residential addresses in a geographic information system. We examined gut microbiome differences due to OP exposures, specifically differences in microbial diversity based on the Shannon index and Bray-Curtis dissimilarities, and differential taxa abundance and predicted Metacyc pathway expression relying on regression models and adjusting for potential confounders. OP exposure was not associated with alpha or beta diversity of the gut microbiome. However, the predicted metagenome was sparser and less evenly expressed among those highly exposed to OP (p = 0.04). Additionally, we found that the abundance of two bacterial families, 22 genera, and the predicted expression of 34 Metacyc pathways were associated with long-term OP exposure. These pathways included perturbed processes related to cellular respiration, increased biosynthesis and degradation of compounds related to bacterial wall structure, increased biosynthesis of RNA/DNA precursors, and decreased synthesis of Vitamin B1 and B6. In support of previous animal studies and in-vitro findings, our results suggest that ambient chronic OP pesticide exposure alters gut microbiome composition and its predicted metabolism in humans.


35057561|t|Are We What We Eat? Impact of Diet on the Gut-Brain Axis in Parkinson's Disease.
35057561|w|Margherita Alfonsetti; Vanessa Castelli; Michele d'Angelo
35057561|j|Nutrients
35057561|y|2022
35057561|a|Parkinson's disease is characterized by motor and non-motor symptoms, such as defects in the gut function, which may occur before the motor symptoms. To date, there are therapies that can improve these symptoms, but there is no cure to avoid the development or exacerbation of this disorder. Dysbiosis of gut microbiota could have a crucial role in the gut-brain axis, which is a bidirectional communication between the central nervous system and the enteric nervous system. Diet can affect the microbiota composition, impacting gut-brain axis functionality. Gut microbiome restoration through probiotics, prebiotics, synbiotics or other dietary means could have the potential to slow PD progression. In this review, we will discuss the influence of diet on the bidirectional communication between gut and brain, thus supporting the hypothesis that this disorder could begin in the gut. We also focus on how food-based therapies might then have an influence on PD and could ameliorate non-motor as well as motor symptoms.


34440563|t|Targeting Metabolic Dysfunction for the Treatment of Mood Disorders: Review of the Evidence.
34440563|w|Brett D M Jones; Salman Farooqui; Stefan Kloiber; Muhammad Omair Husain; Benoit H Mulsant; Muhammad Ishrat Husain
34440563|j|Life (Basel, Switzerland)
34440563|y|2021
34440563|a|Major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BD) are often chronic with many patients not responding to available treatments. As these mood disorders are frequently associated with metabolic dysfunction, there has been increased interest in novel treatments that would target metabolic pathways. The objectives of this scoping review were to synthesize evidence on the impact on mood symptoms of lipid lowering agents and anti-diabetics drugs, while also reviewing current knowledge on the association between mood disorders and dyslipidemia or hyperglycemia. We propose that metabolic dysfunction is prevalent in both MDD and BD and it may contribute to the development of these disorders through a variety of pathophysiological processes including inflammation, brain structural changes, hormonal alterations, neurotransmitter disruptions, alteration on brain cholesterol, central insulin resistance, and changes in gut microbiota. Current evidence is conflicting on the use of statins, polyunsaturated fatty acids, thiazolidinediones, glucagon-like peptide agonists, metformin, or insulin for the treatment of MDD and BD. Given the paucity of high-quality randomized controlled trials, additional studies are needed before any of these medications can be repurposed in routine clinical practice. Future trials need to enrich patient recruitment, include evaluations of mechanism of action, and explore differential effects on specific symptom domains such as anhedonia, suicidality, and cognition.


36937822|t|Bone fragility during the COVID-19 pandemic: the role of macro- and micronutrients.
36937822|w|Antimo Moretti; Sara Liguori; Marco Paoletta; Silvia Migliaccio; Giuseppe Toro; Francesca Gimigliano; Giovanni Iolascon
36937822|j|Therapeutic advances in musculoskeletal disease
36937822|y|2023
36937822|a|Bone fragility is the susceptibility to fracture due to poor bone strength. This condition is usually associated with aging, comorbidities, disability, poor quality of life, and increased mortality. International guidelines for the management of patients with bone fragility include a nutritional approach, mainly aiming at optimal protein, calcium, and vitamin D intakes. Several biomechanical features of the skeleton, such as bone mineral density (BMD), trabecular and cortical microarchitecture, seem to be positively influenced by micro- and macronutrient intake. Patients with major fragility fractures are usually poor consumers of dairy products, fruit, and vegetables as well as of nutrients modulating gut microbiota. The COVID-19 pandemic has further aggravated the health status of patients with skeletal fragility, also in terms of unhealthy dietary patterns that might adversely affect bone health. In this narrative review, we discuss the role of macro- and micronutrients in patients with bone fragility during the COVID-19 pandemic.


37956855|t|Role of the gut-brain axis via the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerve in stress resilience of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine in mice exposed to chronic restrain stress.
37956855|w|Youge Qu; Akifumi Eguchi; Li Ma; Xiayun Wan; Chisato Mori; Kenji Hashimoto
37956855|j|Neurobiology of disease
37956855|y|2023
37956855|a|3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is the most widely used illicit substance worldwide. Nevertheless, recent observational studies demonstrated that lifetime MDMA use among U.S. adults was associated with a lower risk of depression and suicide thoughts. We recently reported that the gut-brain axis may contribute to MDMA-induced stress resilience in mice. To further explore this, we investigated the effects of subdiaphragmatic vagotomy (SDV) in modulating the stress resilience effects of MDMA in mice subjected to chronic restrain stress (CRS). Pretreatment with MDMA (10 mg/kg/day for 14 days) blocked anhedonia-like behavior and reduced expression of synaptic proteins and brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of CRS-exposed mice. Interestingly, SDV blocked the beneficial effects of MDMA on these alterations in CRS-exposed mice. Analysis of gut microbiome revealed alterations in four measures of α-diversity between the sham + MDMA + CRS group and the SDV + MDMA + CRS group. Moreover, specific microbes differed between the vehicle + CRS group and the MDMA + CRS group, and further differences in microbial composition were observed among all four groups. Untargeted metabolomics analysis showed that SDV prevented the increase in plasma levels of three compounds [lactic acid, 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-2,2,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidinol, 8-acetyl-7-hydroxyvumaline] observed in the sham + MDMA + CRS group. Interestingly, positive correlations were found between the plasma levels of two of these compounds and the abundance of several microbes across all groups. In conclusion, our data suggest that the gut-brain axis via the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerve might contribute to the stress resilience of MDMA.


38589422|t|Transplantation of gut microbiota derived from patients with schizophrenia induces schizophrenia-like behaviors and dysregulated brain transcript response in mice.
38589422|w|Nana Wei; Mingliang Ju; Xichen Su; Yan Zhang; Yonghe Huang; Xinyue Rao; Li Cui; Zhibing Lin; Yi Dong
38589422|j|Schizophrenia (Heidelberg, Germany)
38589422|y|2024
38589422|a|Schizophrenia (SCZ), as a neurodevelopmental disorder and devastating disease, affects approximately 1% of the world population. Although numerous studies have attempted to elucidate the causes of SCZ occurrence, it is not clearly understood. Recently, the emerging roles of the gut microbiota in a range of brain disorders, including SCZ, have attracted much attention. While the molecular mechanism of gut microbiota in regulating the pathogenesis of SCZ is still lacking. Here, we first confirmed the difference of gut microbiome between SCZ patients and healthy controls, and then, we performed fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) to clarify the roles of SCZ patients-derived microbiota in a specific pathogen free (SPF) mice model. 16 S rDNA sequencing confirmed that a significant difference of gut microbiome was present between two groups of FMT mice, which has a similar trend with the above human gut microbiome. Furthermore, we found that transplantation of fecal microbiota from SCZ patients into SPF mice was sufficient to induce schizophrenia-like (SCZ-like) symptoms, such as deficits in sociability and hyperactivity. Furthermore, the brains of mice colonized with SCZ microbiota displayed dysregulated transcript response and alternative splicing of SCZ-relevant genes. Moreover, 10 key genes were identified to be correlated with SCZ by an integrative transcriptome data analysis. Finally, 4 key genes were identified to be correlated with the 12 differential genera between two groups of FMT mice. Our results thus demonstrated that the gut microbiome might modify the transcriptomic profile in the brain, thereby modulating social behavior, and our present study can help better understand the link between gut microbiota and SCZ pathogenesis through the gut-brain axis.


37709081|t|Maternal exposure of mice to glyphosate induces depression- and anxiety-like behavior in the offspring via alterations of the gut-brain axis.
37709081|w|Lisa Buchenauer; Sven-Bastiaan Haange; Mario Bauer; Ulrike E Rolle-Kampczyk; Marita Wagner; Johanna Stucke; Elena Elter; Beate Fink; Maren Vass; Martin von Bergen; Angela Schulz; Ana C Zenclussen; Kristin M Junge; Gabriele I Stangl; Tobias Polte
37709081|j|The Science of the total environment
37709081|y|2023
37709081|a|The past decade has been characterized by increased awareness and de-stigmatization of mental health issues, in particular the most common neuropsychiatric disorders depression and anxiety. Further, with growing understanding of neurodevelopmental disorders such as attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder and autism spectrum disorder, the number of diagnosed patients has increased. The pathogenesis of these behavioral disorders is multifactorial and early-life exposure to environmental chemicals has been proposed to be a relevant risk factor that might mediate these effects by disturbances on the gut-brain-axis. However, for glyphosate, the most widely used pesticide worldwide, there are only limited and inconsistent findings that link chronic low-dose exposure in particular during early life to neurobehavioral disorders. Here, we explored the impact of maternal oral glyphosate exposure (0.5 and 50 mg/kg body weight/day) during pregnancy and the lactational period on offspring's behavior, brain gene expression and gut microbiota using a cross-generational mouse model. Behavioral analyses revealed a depression- and anxiety-like behavior as well as social deficits most notably in adult female offspring of glyphosate-exposed dams. Furthermore, the expression of tryptophan hydroxylase 2, an enzyme discussed to be linked to behavioral problems, was reduced in the hippocampus of female offspring and correlated to a glyphosate-induced DNA hypermethylation of the gene. Moreover, maternal glyphosate exposure significantly altered the gut microbiota in the female offspring including a decreased abundance of Akkermansia and increased abundance of Alistipes and Blautia, bacteria involved in tryptophan metabolism and associated with depression- and anxiety-like disorders. Our results suggest that glyphosate might influence the gut-brain axis crosstalk following in-utero and lactational exposure. This study underlines the importance of understanding the impact of exposure to pesticides on the gut-brain axis and further emphasizes the need for microbiome analyses to be compulsorily included in health risk assessments of pesticides.


38332676|t|Repeated (<i>S</i>)-ketamine administration ameliorates the spatial working memory impairment in mice with chronic pain: role of the gut microbiota-brain axis.
38332676|w|Yubin Jiang; Xingming Wang; Jiawei Chen; Yibao Zhang; Kenji Hashimoto; Jian-Jun Yang; Zhiqiang Zhou
38332676|j|Gut microbes
38332676|y|2024
38332676|a|Chronic pain is commonly linked with diminished working memory. This study explores the impact of the anesthetic (<i>S</i>)-ketamine on spatial working memory in a chronic constriction injury (CCI) mouse model, focusing on gut microbiome. We found that multiple doses of (<i>S</i>)-ketamine, unlike a single dose, counteracted the reduced spontaneous alteration percentage (%SA) in the Y-maze spatial working memory test, without affecting mechanical or thermal pain sensitivity. Additionally, repeated (<i>S</i>)-ketamine treatments improved the abnormal composition of the gut microbiome (β-diversity), as indicated by fecal 16S rRNA analysis, and increased levels of butyrate, a key gut - brain axis mediator. Protein analysis showed that these treatments also corrected the upregulated histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) and downregulated brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampi of CCI mice. Remarkably, fecal microbiota transplantation from mice treated repeatedly with (<i>S</i>)-ketamine to CCI mice restored %SA and hippocampal BDNF levels in CCI mice. Butyrate supplementation alone also improved %SA, BDNF, and HDAC2 levels in CCI mice. Furthermore, the TrkB receptor antagonist ANA-12 negated the beneficial effects of repeated (<i>S</i>)-ketamine on spatial working memory impairment in CCI mice. These results indicate that repeated (<i>S</i>)-ketamine administration ameliorates spatial working memory impairment in CCI mice, mediated by a gut microbiota - brain axis, primarily through the enhancement of hippocampal BDNF - TrkB signaling by butyrate.


34829694|t|Probiotic Enhancement of Antioxidant Capacity and Alterations of Gut Microbiota Composition in 6-Hydroxydopamin-Induced Parkinson's Disease Rats.
34829694|w|Shu-Ping Tsao; Bira Arumndari Nurrahma; Ravi Kumar; Chieh-Hsi Wu; Tu-Hsueh Yeh; Ching-Chi Chiu; Yen-Peng Lee; Yi-Chi Liao; Cheng-Hsieh Huang; Yao-Tsung Yeh; Hui-Yu Huang
34829694|j|Antioxidants (Basel, Switzerland)
34829694|y|2021
34829694|a|Oxidative stress plays a key role in the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD), which may be aggravated by concomitant PD-associated gut dysbiosis. Probiotics and prebiotics are therapeutically relevant to these conditions due to their antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and gut microbiome modulation properties. However, the mechanisms by which probiotic/prebiotic supplementation affects antioxidant capacity and the gut microbiome in PD remains poorly characterized. In this study, we assessed the effects of a <i>Lactobacillus salivarius</i> AP-32 probiotic, a prebiotic (dried AP-32 culture medium supernatant), and a probiotic/prebiotic cocktail in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced PD. The neuroprotective effects and levels of oxidative stress were evaluated after eight weeks of daily supplementation. Fecal microbiota composition was analyzed by fecal 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The supplements were associated with direct increases in host antioxidant enzyme activities and short-chain fatty acid production, protected dopaminergic neurons, and improved motor functions. The supplements also altered the fecal microbiota composition, and some specifically enriched commensal taxa correlated positively with superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and catalase activity, indicating supplementation also promotes antioxidant activity via an indirect pathway. Therefore, <i>L. salivarius</i> AP-32 supplementation enhanced the activity of host antioxidant enzymes via direct and indirect modes of action in rats with 6-OHDA-induced PD.


36593394|t|Discovery of drug-omics associations in type 2 diabetes with generative deep-learning models.
36593394|w|Rosa Lundbye Allesøe; Agnete Troen Lundgaard; Ricardo Hernández Medina; Alejandro Aguayo-Orozco; Joachim Johansen; Jakob Nybo Nissen; Caroline Brorsson; Gianluca Mazzoni; Lili Niu; Jorge Hernansanz Biel; Cristina Leal Rodríguez; Valentas Brasas; Henry Webel; Michael Eriksen Benros; Anders Gorm Pedersen; Piotr Jaroslaw Chmura; Ulrik Plesner Jacobsen; Andrea Mari; Robert Koivula; Anubha Mahajan; Ana Vinuela; Juan Fernandez Tajes; Sapna Sharma; Mark Haid; Mun-Gwan Hong; Petra B Musholt; Federico De Masi; Josef Vogt; Helle Krogh Pedersen; Valborg Gudmundsdottir; Angus Jones; Gwen Kennedy; Jimmy Bell; E Louise Thomas; Gary Frost; Henrik Thomsen; Elizaveta Hansen; Tue Haldor Hansen; Henrik Vestergaard; Mirthe Muilwijk; Marieke T Blom; Leen M 't Hart; Francois Pattou; Violeta Raverdy; Soren Brage; Tarja Kokkola; Alison Heggie; Donna McEvoy; Miranda Mourby; Jane Kaye; Andrew Hattersley; Timothy McDonald; Martin Ridderstråle; Mark Walker; Ian Forgie; Giuseppe N Giordano; Imre Pavo; Hartmut Ruetten; Oluf Pedersen; Torben Hansen; Emmanouil Dermitzakis; Paul W Franks; Jochen M Schwenk; Jerzy Adamski; Mark I McCarthy; Ewan Pearson; Karina Banasik; Simon Rasmussen; Søren Brunak
36593394|j|Nature biotechnology
36593394|y|2023
36593394|a|The application of multiple omics technologies in biomedical cohorts has the potential to reveal patient-level disease characteristics and individualized response to treatment. However, the scale and heterogeneous nature of multi-modal data makes integration and inference a non-trivial task. We developed a deep-learning-based framework, multi-omics variational autoencoders (MOVE), to integrate such data and applied it to a cohort of 789 people with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes with deep multi-omics phenotyping from the DIRECT consortium. Using in silico perturbations, we identified drug-omics associations across the multi-modal datasets for the 20 most prevalent drugs given to people with type 2 diabetes with substantially higher sensitivity than univariate statistical tests. From these, we among others, identified novel associations between metformin and the gut microbiota as well as opposite molecular responses for the two statins, simvastatin and atorvastatin. We used the associations to quantify drug-drug similarities, assess the degree of polypharmacy and conclude that drug effects are distributed across the multi-omics modalities.


37690584|t|An updated overview on the relationship between human gut microbiome dysbiosis and psychiatric and psychological disorders.
37690584|w|Alejandro Borrego-Ruiz; Juan J Borrego
37690584|j|Progress in neuro-psychopharmacology & biological psychiatry
37690584|y|2024
37690584|a|There is a lot of evidence establishing that nervous system development is related to the composition and functions of the gut microbiome. In addition, the central nervous system (CNS) controls the imbalance of the intestinal microbiota, constituting a bidirectional communication system. At present, various gut-brain crosstalk routes have been described, including immune, endocrine and neural circuits via the vagal pathway. Several empirical data have associated gut microbiota alterations (dysbiosis) with neuropsychiatric diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, autism and Parkinson's disease, and with other psychological disorders, like anxiety and depression. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) therapy has shown that the gut microbiota can transfer behavioral features to recipient animals, which provides strong evidence to establish a causal-effect relationship. Interventions, based on prebiotics, probiotics or synbiotics, have demonstrated an important influence of microbiota on neurological disorders by the synthesis of neuroactive compounds that interact with the nervous system and by the regulation of inflammatory and endocrine processes. Further research is needed to demonstrate the influence of gut microbiota dysbiosis on psychiatric and psychological disorders, and how microbiota-based interventions may be used as potential therapeutic tools.


33919680|t|Nutritional Psychiatry: How Diet Affects Brain through Gut Microbiota.
33919680|w|Giuseppe Grosso
33919680|j|Nutrients
33919680|y|2021
33919680|a|Nutritional sciences have been recognized as being of paramount importance for the prevention of non-communicable diseases. Among others, mental health disorders have been hypothesized to be influenced by dietary risk through a variety of molecular mechanisms. The improvements in the technology and implementation of-omics sciences in terms of nutrition have created the possibility of studying the relation between diet, gut microbiota and mental health. The gut-brain-axis represents the core rationale setting the stage for a relatively new discipline of study defined as "nutritional psychiatry". Research on this matter will help to better understand the relation between food and mood, sleep quality, cognition, and mental health in general.


38582087|t|Gut bacteria-driven homovanillic acid alleviates depression by modulating synaptic integrity.
38582087|w|Mingliang Zhao; Zhenxing Ren; Aihua Zhao; Yajun Tang; Junliang Kuang; Mengci Li; Tianlu Chen; Shouli Wang; Jieyi Wang; Huiheng Zhang; Jijun Wang; Tianhong Zhang; Jiahui Zeng; Xiaohua Liu; Guoxiang Xie; Penghong Liu; Ning Sun; Tianhao Bao; Tongtong Nie; Jingchao Lin; Ping Liu; Yuanyi Zheng; Xiaojiao Zheng; Tiemin Liu; Wei Jia
38582087|j|Cell metabolism
38582087|y|2024
38582087|a|The gut-brain axis is implicated in depression development, yet its underlying mechanism remains unclear. We observed depleted gut bacterial species, including Bifidobacterium longum and Roseburia intestinalis, and the neurotransmitter homovanillic acid (HVA) in individuals with depression and mouse depression models. Although R. intestinalis does not directly produce HVA, it enhances B. longum abundance, leading to HVA generation. This highlights a synergistic interaction among gut microbiota in regulating intestinal neurotransmitter production. Administering HVA, B. longum, or R. intestinalis to mouse models with chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) and corticosterone (CORT)-induced depression significantly improved depressive symptoms. Mechanistically, HVA inhibited synaptic autophagic death by preventing excessive degradation of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3) and SQSTM1/p62 proteins, protecting hippocampal neurons' presynaptic membrane. These findings underscore the role of the gut microbial metabolism in modulating synaptic integrity and provide insights into potential novel treatment strategies for depression.


35711028|t|The Immune System and Depression: From Epidemiological to Clinical Evidence.
35711028|w|Nina Vindegaard Sørensen; Michael Eriksen Benros
35711028|j|Current topics in behavioral neurosciences
35711028|y|2023
35711028|a|Depression is a frequent mental disorder with a substantial contribution to years lived with disability worldwide. In the search for new treatment targets, the immune system's contribution to the pathogenesis of depression has received increased attention as immune activation has been associated with depression in various epidemiological and case-control studies. Epidemiological studies have shown that immune exposures such as severe infections and autoimmune disorders increase the risk of depression. Furthermore, immune system activation has been indicated in case-control studies of depression revealing higher levels of key pro-inflammatory cytokines among patients with depression than healthy controls, particularly in blood and to some extent in the cerebrospinal fluid. Moreover, brain imaging studies indicate increased microglial activity during depression, and gut microbiota studies have documented alterations of gut microbiota composition to be associated with depression. Based on findings from animal and human studies, several immune-mediated molecular mechanisms have been suggested to underlie the association between increased immunological activity and depression. However, the research is challenged by the heterogeneity of the depression diagnosis and - to some extent - the precision of currently available technology for immune biomarker quantification, particularly regarding the assessment of low-grade neuroinflammation. Nonetheless, an enhanced understanding of the complex interactions between the immune system and the brain in the context of depression could pave the way for precision medicine approaches with immune-modulating treatment as a promising additional option in the treatment of depression.


28195358|t|Parkinson's disease and Parkinson's disease medications have distinct signatures of the gut microbiome.
28195358|w|Erin M Hill-Burns; Justine W Debelius; James T Morton; William T Wissemann; Matthew R Lewis; Zachary D Wallen; Shyamal D Peddada; Stewart A Factor; Eric Molho; Cyrus P Zabetian; Rob Knight; Haydeh Payami
28195358|j|Movement disorders : official journal of the Movement Disorder Society
28195358|y|2017
28195358|a|There is mounting evidence for a connection between the gut and Parkinson's disease (PD). Dysbiosis of gut microbiota could explain several features of PD. The objective of this study was to determine if PD involves dysbiosis of gut microbiome, disentangle effects of confounders, and identify candidate taxa and functional pathways to guide research. A total of 197 PD cases and 130 controls were studied. Microbial composition was determined by 16S rRNA gene sequencing of DNA extracted from stool. Metadata were collected on 39 potential confounders including medications, diet, gastrointestinal symptoms, and demographics. Statistical analyses were conducted while controlling for potential confounders and correcting for multiple testing. We tested differences in the overall microbial composition, taxa abundance, and functional pathways. Independent microbial signatures were detected for PD (P = 4E-5), participants' region of residence within the United States (P = 3E-3), age (P = 0.03), sex (P = 1E-3), and dietary fruits/vegetables (P = 0.01). Among patients, independent signals were detected for catechol-O-methyltransferase-inhibitors (P = 4E-4), anticholinergics (P = 5E-3), and possibly carbidopa/levodopa (P = 0.05). We found significantly altered abundances of the Bifidobacteriaceae, Christensenellaceae, [Tissierellaceae], Lachnospiraceae, Lactobacillaceae, Pasteurellaceae, and Verrucomicrobiaceae families. Functional predictions revealed changes in numerous pathways, including the metabolism of plant-derived compounds and xenobiotics degradation. PD is accompanied by dysbiosis of gut microbiome. Results coalesce divergent findings of prior studies, reveal altered abundance of several taxa, nominate functional pathways, and demonstrate independent effects of PD medications on the microbiome. The findings provide new leads and testable hypotheses on the pathophysiology and treatment of PD. © 2017 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.


32149335|t|The Role of the Gut Microbiota in Dietary Interventions for Depression and Anxiety.
32149335|w|Tracey L K Bear; Julie E Dalziel; Jane Coad; Nicole C Roy; Christine A Butts; Pramod K Gopal
32149335|j|Advances in nutrition (Bethesda, Md.)
32149335|y|2020
32149335|a|There is emerging evidence that an unhealthy dietary pattern may increase the risk of developing depression or anxiety, whereas a healthy dietary pattern may decrease it. This nascent research suggests that dietary interventions could help prevent, or be an alternative or adjunct therapy for, depression and anxiety. The relation, however, is complex, affected by many confounding variables, and is also likely to be bidirectional, with dietary choices being affected by stress and depression. This complexity is reflected in the data, with sometimes conflicting results among studies. As the research evolves, all characteristics of the relation need to be considered to ensure that we obtain a full understanding, which can potentially be translated into clinical practice. A parallel and fast-growing body of research shows that the gut microbiota is linked with the brain in a bidirectional relation, commonly termed the microbiome-gut-brain axis. Preclinical evidence suggests that this axis plays a key role in the regulation of brain function and behavior. In this review we discuss possible reasons for the conflicting results in diet-mood research, and present examples of areas of the diet-mood relation in which the gut microbiota is likely to be involved, potentially explaining some of the conflicting results from diet and depression studies. We argue that because diet is one of the most significant factors that affects human gut microbiota structure and function, nutritional intervention studies need to consider the gut microbiota as an essential piece of the puzzle.


37199590|t|Healthy Human Fecal Microbiota Transplantation into Mice Attenuates MPTP-Induced Neurotoxicity via AMPK/SOD2 Pathway.
37199590|w|Zhenchao Xie; Mahui Zhang; Yuqi Luo; Dana Jin; Xingfang Guo; Wanlin Yang; Jialing Zheng; Hongfei Zhang; Lu Zhang; Chao Deng; Wenhua Zheng; Eng-King Tan; Kunlin Jin; Shuzhen Zhu; Qing Wang
37199590|j|Aging and disease
37199590|y|2023
37199590|a|Increasing evidence has shown that gut dysbacteriosis may play a crucial role in neuroinflammation in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the specific mechanisms that link gut microbiota to PD remain unexplored. Given the critical roles of blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction and mitochondrial dysfunction in the development of PD, we aimed to evaluate the interactions among the gut microbiota, BBB, and mitochondrial resistance to oxidation and inflammation in PD. We investigated the effects of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) on the physiopathology of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated mice. The aim was to explore the role of fecal microbiota from PD patients and healthy human controls in neuroinflammation, BBB components, and mitochondrial antioxidative capacity via the AMPK/SOD2 pathway. Compared to control mice, MPTP-treated mice exhibited elevated levels of Desulfovibrio, whereas mice given FMT from PD patients exhibited enriched levels of Akkermansia and mice given FMT from healthy humans showed no significant alterations in gut microbiota. Strikingly, FMT from PD patients to MPTP-treated mice significantly aggravated motor impairments, dopaminergic neurodegeneration, nigrostriatal glial activation and colonic inflammation, and inhibited the AMPK/SOD2 signaling pathway. However, FMT from healthy human controls greatly improved the aforementioned MPTP-caused effects. Surprisingly, the MPTP-treated mice displayed a significant loss in nigrostriatal pericytes, which was restored by FMT from healthy human controls. Our findings demonstrate that FMT from healthy human controls can correct gut dysbacteriosis and ameliorate neurodegeneration in the MPTP-induced PD mouse model by suppressing microgliosis and astrogliosis, ameliorating mitochondrial impairments via the AMPK/SOD2 pathway, and restoring the loss of nigrostriatal pericytes and BBB integrity. These findings raise the possibility that the alteration in the human gut microbiota may be a risk factor for PD and provide evidence for potential application of FMT in PD preclinical treatment.


35656540|t|The Gut Microbiome in Parkinson's Disease: A Longitudinal Study of the Impacts on Disease Progression and the Use of Device-Assisted Therapies.
35656540|w|Michal Lubomski; Xiangnan Xu; Andrew J Holmes; Samuel Muller; Jean Y H Yang; Ryan L Davis; Carolyn M Sue
35656540|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
35656540|y|2022
35656540|a|Altered gut microbiome (GM) composition has been established in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, few studies have longitudinally investigated the GM in PD, or the impact of device-assisted therapies. To investigate the temporal stability of GM profiles from PD patients on standard therapies and those initiating device-assisted therapies (DAT) and define multivariate models of disease and progression. We evaluated validated clinical questionnaires and stool samples from 74 PD patients and 74 household controls (HCs) at 0, 6, and 12 months. Faster or slower disease progression was defined from levodopa equivalence dose and motor severity measures. 19 PD patients initiating Deep Brain Stimulation or Levodopa-Carbidopa Intestinal Gel were separately evaluated at 0, 6, and 12 months post-therapy initiation. Persistent underrepresentation of short-chain fatty-acid-producing bacteria, <i>Butyricicoccus, Fusicatenibacter, Lachnospiraceae ND3007 group</i>, and <i>Erysipelotrichaceae UCG-003</i>, were apparent in PD patients relative to controls. A sustained effect of DAT initiation on GM associations with PD was not observed. PD progression analysis indicated that the genus <i>Barnesiella</i> was underrepresented in faster progressing PD patients at <i>t</i> = 0 and <i>t</i> = 12 months. Two-stage predictive modeling, integrating microbiota abundances and nutritional profiles, improved predictive capacity (change in Area Under the Curve from 0.58 to 0.64) when assessed at Amplicon Sequence Variant taxonomic resolution. We present longitudinal GM studies in PD patients, showing persistently altered GM profiles suggestive of a reduced butyrogenic production potential. DATs exerted variable GM influences across the short and longer-term. We found that specific GM profiles combined with dietary factors improved prediction of disease progression in PD patients.


38248533|t|Long-Term Impact of Childhood Adversity on the Gut Microbiome of Nursing Students.
38248533|w|Negin Kazemian; Tony Zhou; Naveen Chalasani; Apurva Narayan; Jose Guillermo Cedeño Laurent; Hector A Olvera Alvarez; Sepideh Pakpour
38248533|j|International journal of environmental research and public health
38248533|y|2024
38248533|a|Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) encompass negative, stressful, and potentially traumatic events during childhood, impacting physical and mental health outcomes in adulthood. Limited studies suggest ACEs can have short-term effects on children's gut microbiomes and adult cognitive performance under stress. Nevertheless, the long-term effects of ACEs experienced during adulthood remain unexplored. Thus, this study aimed to assess the long-term effects of ACEs on the gut microbiota of adult nursing students. We employed a multidimensional approach, combining 16S rRNA sequencing, bioinformatics tools, and machine learning to predict functional capabilities. High-ACE individuals had an increased abundance of <i>Butyricimonas</i> spp. and <i>Prevotella</i> spp. and decreased levels of Clostridiales, and <i>Lachnospira</i> spp. <i>Prevotella</i> abundance correlated negatively with L-glutamate and L-glutamine biosynthesis, potentially impacting intestinal tissue integrity. While nursing students with high ACE reported increased depression, evidence for a direct gut microbiota-depression relationship was inconclusive. High-ACE individuals also experienced a higher prevalence of diarrhea. These findings highlight the long-lasting impact of ACEs on the gut microbiota and its functions in adulthood, particularly among nursing students. Further research is warranted to develop targeted interventions and strategies for healthcare professionals, optimizing overall health outcomes.


33067279|t|Effects of sulforaphane on cognitive function in patients with frontal brain damage: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.
33067279|w|Fangkun Liu; Jing Huang; Gangrui Hei; Renrong Wu; Zhixiong Liu
33067279|j|BMJ open
33067279|y|2020
33067279|a|Many patients with frontal brain damage show serious cognitive function deficits, which hamper their quality of life and result in poor clinical outcomes. Preclinical research has shown that sulforaphane can significantly improve spatial localisation and working memory impairment after brain injury. The primary aim of this double-blind randomised controlled clinical trial is to assess the efficacy of sulforaphane for improving cognitive function in patients with frontal brain damage. Ninety eligible patients will be randomly allocated to an active treatment or a placebo group in a 2:1 ratio. Participants will undergo a series of cognitive and neuropsychiatric tests at baseline (week 0) and after 12 weeks to determine the effect of sulforaphane on cognition. Magnetic resonance spectrum of the brain will be studied using the 3T MRIs of the brain to detect brain metabolites markers, including N-acetyl aspartate, glutamate (Glu), glutathione (GSH) and γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Blood brain-derived neurotrophic factor, Glu, GSH and GABA levels and gut microbiota will also be assessed over this period. This study will also evaluate long-term outcomes of brain trauma, brain tumours and cerebrovascular disease via exploratory analyses. The primary outcome will be the difference in scores of a battery of cognitive tests after 12 weeks of sulforaphane treatment. The secondary outcomes will be changes in the Functional Activities Questionnaire (FAQ), the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), the Self-Rating Anxiety Scale, the changes in T1-weighted MRI and resting-state functional MRI findings, and changes in brain and blood metabolic markers and gut microbiota at weeks 0 and 12. We expect that sulforaphane will yield favourable results in treating memory and learning deficits for patients with frontal brain damage. Cognitive functional treatment may also improve brain trauma, brain tumours and cerebrovascular outcomes. The study protocol has been approved by the Medical Ethics committee of the Xiangya Hospital of Central South University (No. 2017121019). The results will be disseminated in peer-reviewed journals and at international conferences. This trial was registered on Clinicaltrials.gov on 31 January 2020 (NCT04252261). The protocol version is V.1.0 (20 December 2019).


33005892|t|Gut dysbiosis in Huntington's disease: associations among gut microbiota, cognitive performance and clinical outcomes.
33005892|w|Cory I Wasser; Emily-Clare Mercieca; Geraldine Kong; Anthony J Hannan; Sonja J McKeown; Yifat Glikmann-Johnston; Julie C Stout
33005892|j|Brain communications
33005892|y|2020
33005892|a|Huntington's disease is characterized by a triad of motor, cognitive and psychiatric impairments, as well as unintended weight loss. Although much of the research has focused on cognitive, motor and psychiatric symptoms, the extent of peripheral pathology and the relationship between these factors, and the core symptoms of Huntington's disease, are relatively unknown. Gut microbiota are key modulators of communication between the brain and gut, and alterations in microbiota composition (dysbiosis) can negatively affect cognition, behaviour and affective function, and may be implicated in disease progression. Furthermore, gut dysbiosis was recently reported in Huntington's disease transgenic mice. Our main objective was to characterize the gut microbiome in people with Huntington's disease and determine whether the composition of gut microbiota are significantly related to clinical indicators of disease progression. We compared 42 Huntington's disease gene expansion carriers, including 19 people who were diagnosed with Huntington's disease (Total Functional Capacity > 6) and 23 in the premanifest stage, with 36 age- and gender-matched healthy controls. Participants were characterized clinically using a battery of cognitive tests and using results from 16S V3 to V4 rRNA sequencing of faecal samples to characterize the gut microbiome. For gut microbiome measures, we found significant differences in the microbial communities (beta diversity) based on unweighted UniFrac distance (<i>P </i>=<i> </i>0.001), as well as significantly lower alpha diversity (species richness and evenness) between our combined Huntington's disease gene expansion carrier group and healthy controls (<i>P </i>=<i> </i>0.001). We also found major shifts in the microbial community structure at Phylum and Family levels, and identified functional pathways and enzymes affected in our Huntington's disease gene expansion carrier group. Within the Huntington's disease gene expansion carrier group, we also discovered associations among gut bacteria, cognitive performance and clinical outcomes. Overall, our findings suggest an altered gut microbiome in Huntington's disease gene expansion carriers. These results highlight the importance of gut biomarkers and raise interesting questions regarding the role of the gut in Huntington's disease, and whether it may be a potential target for future therapeutic intervention.


35189807|t|Rifaximin modulates TRH and TRH-like peptide expression throughout the brain and peripheral tissues of male rats.
35189807|w|Albert Eugene Pekary; Albert Sattin
35189807|j|BMC neuroscience
35189807|y|2022
35189807|a|The TRH/TRH-R1 receptor signaling pathway within the neurons of the dorsal vagal complex is an important mediator of the brain-gut axis. Mental health and protection from a variety of neuropathologies, such as autism, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, major depression, migraine and epilepsy are influenced by the gut microbiome and is mediated by the vagus nerve. The antibiotic rifaximin (RF) does not cross the gut-blood barrier. It changes the composition of the gut microbiome resulting in therapeutic benefits for traveler's diarrhea, hepatic encephalopathy, and prostatitis. TRH and TRH-like peptides, with the structure pGlu-X-Pro-NH<sub>2</sub>, where "X" can be any amino acid residue, have reproduction-enhancing, caloric-restriction-like, anti-aging, pancreatic-β cell-, cardiovascular-, and neuroprotective effects. TRH and TRH-like peptides occur not only throughout the CNS but also in peripheral tissues. To elucidate the involvement of TRH-like peptides in brain-gut-reproductive system interactions 16 male Sprague-Dawley rats, 203 ± 6 g, were divided into 4 groups (n = 4/group): the control (CON) group remained on ad libitum Purina rodent chow and water for 10 days until decapitation, acute (AC) group receiving 150 mg RF/kg powdered rodent chow for 24 h providing 150 mg RF/kg body weight for 200 g rats, chronic (CHR) animals receiving RF for 10 days; withdrawal (WD) rats receiving RF for 8 days and then normal chow for 2 days. Significant changes in the levels of TRH and TRH-like peptides occurred throughout the brain and peripheral tissues in response to RF. The number of significant changes in TRH and TRH-like peptide levels in brain resulting from RF treatment, in descending order were: medulla (16), piriform cortex (8), nucleus accumbens (7), frontal cortex (5), striatum (3), amygdala (3), entorhinal cortex (3), anterior (2), and posterior cingulate (2), hippocampus (1), hypothalamus (0) and cerebellum (0). The corresponding ranking for peripheral tissues were: prostate (6), adrenals (4), pancreas (3), liver (2), testis (1), heart (0). The sensitivity of TRH and TRH-like peptide expression to RF treatment, particularly in the medulla oblongata and prostate, is consistent with the participation of these peptides in the therapeutic effects of RF.


34841505|t|Assessment of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth in Alzheimer's disease.
34841505|w|Jingwei Sim; Yu Tien Wang; Kaysar Mamun; Sze Yan Tay; Kinjal Doshi; Shahul Hameed; Simon Kang-Seng Ting
34841505|j|Acta neurologica Taiwanica
34841505|y|2021
34841505|a|There is great interest in crosstalk between the gastrointestinal and immune systems. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) is a bowel disorder prevalent among patients with Parkinson's disease; SIBO treatment has been shown to modulate neurological inflammation, motor and cognitive outcomes there. However, to date, no link between Alzheimer's dementia and SIBO has been established. This pilot study sought to estimate the prevalence of SIBO in Alzheimer's dementia in the outpatient setting in Singapore General Hospital. It entailed performing a hydrogen breath test and objectively scoring gastrointestinal symptoms and their severity in 48 patients, comparing symptom scores and mean breath test values in those with mild to moderate Alzheimer's against age- and sex-matched controls that did not fulfill DSM-V criteria for probable Alzheimer's. Here, the prevalence of positive breath tests and symptoms of SIBO were no greater among Alzheimer's patients than in controls. This suggests that the gut microbiome changes and increased bowel inflammation seen in previous studies on Alzheimer's patients are likely effected through pathways other than SIBO, and are likely more complex than a mere increase in small bowel bacterial volume. Rather, future research could be directed along the lines of qualitative changes in small bowel microbiota, or pathologies in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract such as the colon or stomach, aspects which are not adequately captured by the hydrogen breath test. Keywords: Alzheimer's disease; dementia; gut-brain axis; small intestinal bacterial overgrowth; microbiome.


34280457|t|Stress gets into the belly: Early life stress and the gut microbiome.
34280457|w|Liisa Hantsoo; Babette S Zemel
34280457|j|Behavioural brain research
34280457|y|2021
34280457|a|Research has established that stress "gets under the skin," impacting neuroendocrine and neuroimmune pathways to influence risk for physical and mental health outcomes. These effects can be particularly significant for early life stress (ELS), or adverse childhood experiences (ACEs). In this review, we explore whether stress gets "into the belly," that is, whether psychosocial stress affects the gut microbiome. We review animal and human research utilizing a variety of stress paradigms (acute laboratory stressors, chronic stress, stressful life events, perceived stress, ELS, in utero stress) and their impacts on the gut microbiota, with a particular focus on ELS. We also review data on dietary interventions to moderate impact of stress on the gut microbiome. Our review suggests strong evidence that acute laboratory stress, chronic stress, and ELS affect the gut microbiota in rodents, and growing evidence that perceived stress and ELS may impact the gut microbiota in humans. Emerging data also suggests, particularly in rodents, that dietary interventions such as omega-3 fatty acids and pre- and pro-biotics may buffer against the effects of stress on the gut microbiome, but more research is needed. In sum, growing evidence suggests that stress impacts not only the neuroendocrine and neuroimmune axes, but also the microbiota-gut-brain-axis, providing a pathway by which stress may get "into the belly" to influence health risk.


28536926|t|Structural changes of gut microbiota in Parkinson's disease and its correlation with clinical features.
28536926|w|Wei Li; Xiaoli Wu; Xu Hu; Tao Wang; Shan Liang; Yunfeng Duan; Feng Jin; Bin Qin
28536926|j|Science China. Life sciences
28536926|y|2017
28536926|a|The aim of this study was to compare the structure of gut microbiota in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and healthy controls; and to explore correlations between gut microbiota and PD clinical features. We analyzed fecal bacterial composition of 24 PD patients and 14 healthy volunteers by using 16S rRNA sequencing. There were significant differences between PD and healthy controls, as well as among different PD stages. The putative cellulose degrading bacteria from the genera Blautia (P=0.018), Faecalibacterium (P=0.048) and Ruminococcus (P=0.019) were significantly decreased in PD compared to healthy controls. The putative pathobionts from the genera Escherichia-Shigella (P=0.038), Streptococcus (P=0.01), Proteus (P=0.022), and Enterococcus (P=0.006) were significantly increased in PD subjects. Correlation analysis indicated that disease severity and PD duration negatively correlated with the putative cellulose degraders, and positively correlated with the putative pathobionts. The results suggest that structural changes of gut microbiota in PD are characterized by the decreases of putative cellulose degraders and the increases of putative pathobionts, which may potentially reduce the production of short chain fatty acids, and produce more endotoxins and neurotoxins; and these changes is potentially associated with the development of PD pathology.


37375029|t|Therapeutic Prospect of New Probiotics in Neurodegenerative Diseases.
37375029|w|Mingxia Bi; Chang Liu; Yulin Wang; Shuang-Jiang Liu
37375029|j|Microorganisms
37375029|y|2023
37375029|a|Increasing clinical and preclinical evidence implicates gut microbiome (GM) dysbiosis as a key susceptibility factor for neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). In recent years, neurodegenerative diseases have been viewed as being driven not solely by defects in the brain, and the role of GM in modulating central nervous system function via the gut-brain axis has attracted considerable interest. Encouraged by current GM research, the development of new probiotics may lead to tangible impacts on the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. This review summarizes current understandings of GM composition and characteristics associated with neurodegenerative diseases and research demonstrations of key molecules from the GM that affect neurodegeneration. Furthermore, applications of new probiotics, such as <i>Clostridium butyricum</i>, <i>Akkermansia muciniphila</i>, <i>Faecalibacterium prausnitzii</i>, and <i>Bacteroides fragilis</i>, for the remediation of neurodegenerative diseases are discussed.


37046334|t|Effects of prebiotic supplement on gut microbiota, drug bioavailability, and adverse effects in patients with colorectal cancer at different primary tumor locations receiving chemotherapy: study protocol for a randomized clinical trial.
37046334|w|Ya Chen; Xiaowei Liao; Yanmin Li; Hong Cao; Feng Zhang; Bojian Fei; Chuanqing Bao; Huaxiang Cao; Yong Mao; Xiaoping Chen; Xiang Gao; Wei Zhao; Jianmin Xu
37046334|j|Trials
37046334|y|2023
37046334|a|The prevalence of colorectal cancer (CRC) worldwide is a huge challenge to human health. Primary tumor locations found to impact prognosis and response to therapy. The important role of gut microbiota in the progression and treatment of CRC has led to many attempts of alleviating chemotherapy-induced adverse effects using microecologics. However, the underlying mechanism of the difference in the prognosis of different primary tumor locations and the synergistic effect of prebiotics on chemotherapy need to be further elucidated. This study aims to explore the differences in tumor microbiota and examine the effectiveness of xylooligosaccharides (XOS) on gut microbiota, adverse effects, and bioavailability of chemotherapy drugs in CRC patients at different primary tumor locations. This is a double-blinded, randomized, parallel controlled clinical trial. Participants with left-sided CRC (LSCRC, n = 50) and right-sided CC (RSCC, n = 50) will randomly allocated to prebiotic group (n = 25) or control group (n = 25) and will receive either a daily XOS (3 g/day) or placebo, respectively, for 12 weeks. The primary outcomes will be the differences in the mucosa microbiota composition at different tumor locations and differences in gut microbiota composition, adverse effects, and blood concentration of capecitabine posttreatment. The secondary outcomes will include other blood indicators, short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) concentration, quality of life, and mental health. This study will reveal the potential benefits of prebiotic for improving the gut microbiota composition, alleviating the adverse effects, and improving the efficacy of chemotherapy in patients with CRC. In addition, this study will provide data on the different distribution of tumor microbiota and the different changes of gut microbiota during treatment in LSCRC and RSCC, which may provide novel insights into personalized cancer treatment strategies based on primary tumor locations and gut microbiota in the future. Chinese Clinical Trial Registry ( www.chictr.org.cn ): ChiCTR2100046237. Registered on 12 May 2021.


34650506|t|The Relationship Between the Gut Microbiome-Immune System-Brain Axis and Major Depressive Disorder.
34650506|w|Jane A Foster; Glen B Baker; Serdar M Dursun
34650506|j|Frontiers in neurology
34650506|y|2021
34650506|a|Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a prominent cause of disability worldwide. Current antidepressant drugs produce full remission in only about one-third of MDD patients and there are no biomarkers to guide physicians in selecting the best treatment for individuals. There is an urgency to learn more about the etiology of MDD and to identify new targets that will lead to improved therapy and hopefully aid in predicting and preventing MDD. There has been extensive interest in the roles of the immune system and the gut microbiome in MDD and in how these systems interact. Gut microbes can contribute to the nature of immune responses, and a chronic inflammatory state may lead to increased responsiveness to stress and to development of MDD. The gut microbiome-immune system-brain axis is bidirectional, is sensitive to stress and is important in development of stress-related disorders such as MDD. Communication between the gut and brain involves the enteric nervous system (ENS), the autonomic nervous system (ANS), neuroendocrine signaling systems and the immune system, and all of these can interact with the gut microbiota. Preclinical studies and preliminary clinical investigations have reported improved mood with administration of probiotics and prebiotics, but large, carefully controlled clinical trials are now necessary to evaluate their effectiveness in treating MDD. The roles that several gut microbe-derived molecules such as neurotransmitters, short chain fatty acids and tryptophan play in MDD are reviewed briefly. Challenges and potential future directions associated with studying this important axis as it relates to MDD are discussed.


38350544|t|Exploring environmental exposomes and the gut-brain nexus: Unveiling the impact of pesticide exposure.
38350544|w|Shing Ching Khoo; Nan Zhang; Vijitra Luang-In; Meng Shien Goh; Christian Sonne; Nyuk Ling Ma
38350544|j|Environmental research
38350544|y|2024
38350544|a|This review delves into the escalating concern of environmental pollutants and their profound impact on human health in the context of the modern surge in global diseases. The utilisation of chemicals in food production, which results in residues in food, has emerged as a major concern nowadays. By exploring the intricate relationship between environmental pollutants and gut microbiota, the study reveals a dynamic bidirectional interplay, as modifying microbiota profile influences metabolic pathways and subsequent brain functions. This review will first provide an overview of potential exposomes and their effect to gut health. This paper is then emphasis the connection of gut brain function by analysing microbiome markers with neurotoxicity responses. We then take pesticide as example of exposome to elucidate their influence to biomarkers biosynthesis pathways and subsequent brain functions. The interconnection between neuroendocrine and neuromodulators elements and the gut-brain axis emerges as a pivotal factor in regulating mental health and brain development. Thus, manipulation of gut microbiota function at the onset of stress may offer a potential avenue for the prevention and treatment for mental disorder and other neurodegenerative illness.


37989444|t|Gut microbiota-mediated ursodeoxycholic acids regulate the inflammation of microglia through TGR5 signaling after MCAO.
37989444|w|Feng Zhang; Yiting Deng; Huidi Wang; Jingxiang Fu; Guangyan Wu; Zhuo Duan; Xiru Zhang; Yijia Cai; Hongwei Zhou; Jia Yin; Yan He
37989444|j|Brain, behavior, and immunity
37989444|y|2024
37989444|a|Ischemic stroke has been demonstrated to cause an imbalance of gut microbiota. However, the change in gut microbiota-mediated bile acids (BAs) metabolites remains unclear. Here, we observed a decrease in gut microbiota-mediated BAs, especially ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), in the serum of stroke patients as well as in the intestine, serum and brain of stroke mice. Restoration of UDCA could decrease the area of infarction and improve the neurological function and cognitive function in mice in association with inhibition of NLRP3-related pro-inflammatory cytokines through TGR5/PKA pathway. Furthermore, knocking out TGR5 and inhibiting PKA activity reduce the protective effect of UDCA. Taken together, our results suggest that microbiota-mediated UDCA plays an important role in alleviating inflammatory responses and might be a promising therapeutic target in ischemic stroke.


34376593|t|[Intestinal Flora and Mental Disorders: A Focus on Mood Disorders and Autism Spectrum Disorder].
34376593|w|Hiroshi Kunugi
34376593|j|Brain and nerve = Shinkei kenkyu no shinpo
34376593|y|2021
34376593|a|The intestinal flora plays a key role in the stress response and barrier function of the gut, both of which are closely associated with the pathophysiology of mental health conditions, such as mood disorders and autistic spectrum disorder through the phenomenon of brain-gut interaction. Despite increasing accumulation of empirical data regarding the contribution of the gut microbiota to these disorders, studies have reported inconsistent results. Notably, short chain fatty acid-producing bacteria and those implicated in the pathophysiology of metabolic diseases appear to be associated with the psychiatric conditions. Clinical trials have shown some evidence to suggest the beneficial effects of probiotics in depressive and neurodevelopmental disorders. Limited studies have discussed this subject; however, the role of the intestinal flora in the pathophysiology and treatment of mental disorders appears to be a promising field of research.


33422641|t|A role of the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerve in depression-like phenotypes in mice after fecal microbiota transplantation from Chrna7 knock-out mice with depression-like phenotypes.
33422641|w|Yaoyu Pu; Yunfei Tan; Youge Qu; Lijia Chang; Siming Wang; Yan Wei; Xingming Wang; Kenji Hashimoto
33422641|j|Brain, behavior, and immunity
33422641|y|2021
33422641|a|The α7 subtype of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α7 nAChR: coded by Chrna7) regulates the cholinergic ascending anti-inflammatory pathway involved in depression. We previously reported that Chrna7 knock-out (KO) mice show depression-like phenotypes through systemic inflammation. In this study, we investigated whether fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) from Chrna7 KO mice causes depression-like phenotypes in mice treated with an antibiotic cocktail (ABX). Chrna7 KO mice with depression-like phenotypes show an abnormal gut microbiota composition, although the alpha diversity and beta diversity were not altered. FMT from Chrna7 KO mice caused depression-like phenotypes, systemic inflammation, and downregulation of synaptic proteins in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in the ABX-treated mice compared to FMT from the control mice. The Principal component analysis based on the OTU level showed that the FMT group from the KO mice were different from the FMT group from the control mice. We found differences in abundance for several bacteria in the FMT group from the KO mice at the taxonomic level when compared with the other group. Interestingly, subdiaphragmatic vagotomy significantly blocked the development of depression-like phenotypes in the ABX-treated mice after FMT from Chrna7 KO mice. These data suggest that FMT from Chrna7 KO mice produce depression-like phenotypes in ABX-treated mice via the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerve. The brain-gut-microbiota axis association with the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerve plays an important role in the development of depression.


35443740|t|Role of diet and its effects on the gut microbiome in the pathophysiology of mental disorders.
35443740|w|J Horn; D E Mayer; S Chen; E A Mayer
35443740|j|Translational psychiatry
35443740|y|2022
35443740|a|There is emerging evidence that diet has a major modulatory influence on brain-gut-microbiome (BGM) interactions with important implications for brain health, and for several brain disorders. The BGM system is made up of neuroendocrine, neural, and immune communication channels which establish a network of bidirectional interactions between the brain, the gut and its microbiome. Diet not only plays a crucial role in shaping the gut microbiome, but it can modulate structure and function of the brain through these communication channels. In this review, we summarize the evidence available from preclinical and clinical studies on the influence of dietary habits and interventions on a selected group of psychiatric and neurologic disorders including depression, cognitive decline, Parkinson's disease, autism spectrum disorder and epilepsy. We will particularly address the role of diet-induced microbiome changes which have been implicated in these effects, and some of which are shared between different brain disorders. While the majority of these findings have been demonstrated in preclinical and in cross-sectional, epidemiological studies, to date there is insufficient evidence from mechanistic human studies to make conclusions about causality between a specific diet and microbially mediated brain function. Many of the dietary benefits on microbiome and brain health have been attributed to anti-inflammatory effects mediated by the microbial metabolites of dietary fiber and polyphenols. The new attention given to dietary factors in brain disorders has the potential to improve treatment outcomes with currently available pharmacological and non-pharmacological therapies.


37239020|t|The Impact of microRNAs on Mitochondrial Function and Immunity: Relevance to Parkinson's Disease.
37239020|w|Beatriz F S Guedes; Sandra Morais Cardoso; Ana Raquel Esteves
37239020|j|Biomedicines
37239020|y|2023
37239020|a|Parkinson's Disease (PD), the second most common neurodegenerative disorder, is characterised by the severe loss of dopaminergic neurons in the Substantia Nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and by the presence of Lewy bodies. PD is diagnosed upon the onset of motor symptoms, such as bradykinesia, resting tremor, rigidity, and postural instability. It is currently accepted that motor symptoms are preceded by non-motor features, such as gastrointestinal dysfunction. In fact, it has been proposed that PD might start in the gut and spread to the central nervous system. Growing evidence reports that the gut microbiota, which has been found to be altered in PD patients, influences the function of the central and enteric nervous systems. Altered expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) in PD patients has also been reported, many of which regulate key pathological mechanisms involved in PD pathogenesis, such as mitochondrial dysfunction and immunity. It remains unknown how gut microbiota regulates brain function; however, miRNAs have been highlighted as important players. Remarkably, numerous studies have depicted the ability of miRNAs to modulate and be regulated by the host's gut microbiota. In this review, we summarize the experimental and clinical studies implicating mitochondrial dysfunction and immunity in PD. Moreover, we gather recent data on miRNA involvement in these two processes. Ultimately, we discuss the reciprocal crosstalk between gut microbiota and miRNAs. Studying the bidirectional interaction of gut microbiome-miRNA might elucidate the aetiology and pathogenesis of gut-first PD, which could lead to the application of miRNAs as potential biomarkers or therapeutical targets for PD.


38458803|t|Multicomponent (bio)markers for obesity risk prediction: a scoping review protocol.
38458803|w|Farhad Vahid; Coralie Dessenne; Josep A Tur; Cristina Bouzas; Yvan Devaux; Laurent Malisoux; Margalida Monserrat-Mesquida; Antoni Sureda; Mahesh S Desai; Jonathan D Turner; Elsa Lamy; Maria Perez-Jimenez; Gitte Ravn-Haren; Rikke Andersen; Sarah Forberger; Rajini Nagrani; Yacine Ouzzahra; Michele Filippo Fontefrancesco; Maria Giovanna Onorati; Gino Gabriel Bonetti; Tiziana de-Magistris; Torsten Bohn
38458803|j|BMJ open
38458803|y|2024
38458803|a|Despite international efforts, the number of individuals struggling with obesity is still increasing. An important aspect of obesity prevention relates to identifying individuals at risk at early stage, allowing for timely risk stratification and initiation of countermeasures. However, obesity is complex and multifactorial by nature, and one isolated (bio)marker is unlikely to enable an optimal risk stratification and prognosis for the individual; rather, a combined set is required. Such a multicomponent interpretation would integrate biomarkers from various domains, such as classical markers (eg, anthropometrics, blood lipids), multiomics (eg, genetics, proteomics, metabolomics), lifestyle and behavioural attributes (eg, diet, physical activity, sleep patterns), psychological traits (mental health status such as depression) and additional host factors (eg, gut microbiota diversity), also by means of advanced interpretation tools such as machine learning. In this paper, we will present a protocol that will be employed for a scoping review that attempts to summarise and map the state-of-the-art in the area of multicomponent (bio)markers related to obesity, focusing on the usability and effectiveness of such biomarkers. PubMed, Scopus, CINAHL and Embase databases will be searched using predefined key terms to identify peer-reviewed articles published in English until January 2024. Once downloaded into EndNote for deduplication, CADIMA will be employed to review and select abstracts and full-text articles in a two-step procedure, by two independent reviewers. Data extraction will then be carried out by several independent reviewers. Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews and Peer Review of Electronic Search Strategies guidelines will be followed. Combinations employing at least two biomarkers from different domains will be mapped and discussed. Ethical approval is not required; data will rely on published articles. Findings will be published open access in an international peer-reviewed journal. This review will allow guiding future directions for research and public health strategies on obesity prevention, paving the way towards multicomponent interventions.


32093762|t|Carnelian uncovers hidden functional patterns across diverse study populations from whole metagenome sequencing reads.
32093762|w|Sumaiya Nazeen; Yun William Yu; Bonnie Berger
32093762|j|Genome biology
32093762|y|2020
32093762|a|Microbial populations exhibit functional changes in response to different ambient environments. Although whole metagenome sequencing promises enough raw data to study those changes, existing tools are limited in their ability to directly compare microbial metabolic function across samples and studies. We introduce Carnelian, an end-to-end pipeline for metabolic functional profiling uniquely suited to finding functional trends across diverse datasets. Carnelian is able to find shared metabolic pathways, concordant functional dysbioses, and distinguish Enzyme Commission (EC) terms missed by existing methodologies. We demonstrate Carnelian's effectiveness on type 2 diabetes, Crohn's disease, Parkinson's disease, and industrialized and non-industrialized gut microbiome cohorts.


38176929|t|Research Progress of Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis in Parkinson's Disease.
38176929|w|Wei Zhang; Yalin Ye; Jiayang Song; Tian Sang; Tingting Xia; Linhong Xie; Xiaofei Qiu; Qijing Zeng; Xin Luo
38176929|j|Journal of integrative neuroscience
38176929|y|2023
38176929|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by misfolding of α-synuclein. Clinical manifestations include slowly developing resting tremor, muscle rigidity, bradykinesia and abnormal gait. The pathological mechanisms underlying PD are complex and yet to be fully elucidated. Clinical studies suggest that the onset of gastrointestinal symptoms may precede motor symptoms in PD patients. The microbiota-gut-brain axis plays a bidirectional communication role between the enteric nervous system and the central nervous system. This bidirectional communication between the brain and gut is influenced by the neural, immune and endocrine systems related to the gut microbiome. A growing body of evidence indicates a strong link between dysregulation of the gut microbiota and PD. In this review, we present recent progress in understanding the relationship between the microbiota-gut-brain axis and PD. We focus on the role of the gut microbiota, the unique changes observed in the microbiome of PD patients, and the impact of these changes on the progression of PD. Finally, we evaluate the role of current treatment strategies for PD, including probiotics, fecal microbial transplants, dietary modifications, and related drug therapies.


33428888|t|Gut microbiota-derived vitamins - underrated powers of a multipotent ally in psychiatric health and disease.
33428888|w|Leszek Rudzki; Trevor W Stone; Michael Maes; Błażej Misiak; Jerzy Samochowiec; Agata Szulc
33428888|j|Progress in neuro-psychopharmacology & biological psychiatry
33428888|y|2021
33428888|a|Despite the well-established roles of B-vitamins and their deficiencies in health and disease, there is growing evidence indicating a key role of those nutrients in functions of the central nervous system and in psychopathology. Clinical data indicate the substantial role of B-vitamins in various psychiatric disorders, including major depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, autism, and dementia, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. As enzymatic cofactors, B-vitamins are involved in many physiological processes such as the metabolism of glucose, fatty acids and amino acids, metabolism of tryptophan in the kynurenine pathway, homocysteine metabolism, synthesis and metabolism of various neurotransmitters and neurohormones including serotonin, dopamine, adrenaline, acetylcholine, GABA, glutamate, D-serine, glycine, histamine and melatonin. Those vitamins are highly involved in brain energetic metabolism and respiration at the cellular level. They have a broad range of anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, antioxidant and neuroprotective properties. Furthermore, some of those vitamins are involved in the regulation of permeability of the intestinal and blood-brain barriers. Despite the fact that a substantial amount of the above vitamins is acquired from various dietary sources, deficiencies are not uncommon, and it is estimated that micronutrient deficiencies affect about two billion people worldwide. The majority of gut-resident microbes and the broad range of bacteria available in fermented food, express genetic machinery enabling the synthesis and metabolism of B-vitamins and, consequently, intestinal microbiota and fermented food rich in probiotic bacteria are essential sources of B-vitamins for humans. All in all, there is growing evidence that intestinal bacteria-derived vitamins play a significant role in physiology and that dysregulation of the "microbiota-vitamins frontier" is related to various disorders. In this review, we will discuss the role of vitamins in mental health and explore the perspectives and potential of how gut microbiota-derived vitamins could contribute to mental health and psychiatric treatment.


38436218|t|Roles of Diet-Associated Gut Microbial Metabolites on Brain Health: Cell-to-Cell Interactions between Gut Bacteria and the Central Nervous System.
38436218|w|Chong-Su Kim
38436218|j|Advances in nutrition (Bethesda, Md.)
38436218|y|2024
38436218|a|Gut microbiota have crucial effects on brain function via the gut-brain axis. Growing evidence suggests that this interaction is mediated by signaling molecules derived from dietary components metabolized by the intestinal microbiota. Although recent studies have provided a substantial understanding of the cell-specific effects of gut microbial molecules in gut microbiome-brain research, further validation is needed. This review presents recent findings on gut microbiota-derived dietary metabolites that enter the systemic circulation and influence the cell-to-cell interactions between gut microbes and cells in the central nervous system (CNS), particularly microglia, astrocytes, and neuronal cells, ultimately affecting cognitive function, mood, and behavior. Specifically, this review highlights the roles of metabolites produced by the gut microbiota via dietary component transformation, including short-chain fatty acids, tryptophan metabolites, and bile acid metabolites, in promoting the function and maturation of brain cells and suppressing inflammatory signals in the CNS. We also discuss future directions for gut microbiome-brain research, focusing on diet-induced microbial metabolite-based therapies as possible novel approaches to mental health treatment.


29276734|t|Stress & the gut-brain axis: Regulation by the microbiome.
29276734|w|Jane A Foster; Linda Rinaman; John F Cryan
29276734|j|Neurobiology of stress
29276734|y|2017
29276734|a|The importance of the gut-brain axis in regulating stress-related responses has long been appreciated. More recently, the microbiota has emerged as a key player in the control of this axis, especially during conditions of stress provoked by real or perceived homeostatic challenge. Diet is one of the most important modifying factors of the microbiota-gut-brain axis. The routes of communication between the microbiota and brain are slowly being unravelled, and include the vagus nerve, gut hormone signaling, the immune system, tryptophan metabolism, and microbial metabolites such as short chain fatty acids. The importance of the early life gut microbiota in shaping later health outcomes also is emerging. Results from preclinical studies indicate that alterations of the early microbial composition by way of antibiotic exposure, lack of breastfeeding, birth by Caesarean section, infection, stress exposure, and other environmental influences - coupled with the influence of host genetics - can result in long-term modulation of stress-related physiology and behaviour. The gut microbiota has been implicated in a variety of stress-related conditions including anxiety, depression and irritable bowel syndrome, although this is largely based on animal studies or correlative analysis in patient populations. Additional research in humans is sorely needed to reveal the relative impact and causal contribution of the microbiome to stress-related disorders. In this regard, the concept of psychobiotics is being developed and refined to encompass methods of targeting the microbiota in order to positively impact mental health outcomes. At the 2016 Neurobiology of Stress Workshop in Newport Beach, CA, a group of experts presented the symposium "The Microbiome: Development, Stress, and Disease". This report summarizes and builds upon some of the key concepts in that symposium within the context of how microbiota might influence the neurobiology of stress.


38700338|t|Association between gut microbiota dysbiosis and poor functional outcomes in acute ischemic stroke patients with COVID-19 infection.
38700338|w|Jiaying Chen; Xuxuan Gao; Jingru Liang; Qiheng Wu; Linlin Shen; Yifeng Zheng; Yu Ma; Yuping Peng; Yan He; Jia Yin
38700338|j|mSystems
38700338|y|2024
38700338|a|Acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients with active COVID-19 infection often have more severe symptoms and worse recovery. COVID-19 infection can cause gut microbiota dysbiosis, which is also a risk factor for poor outcomes in AIS patients. However, the association between gut microbiota and functional outcomes among AIS patients with COVID-19 infection has not been fully clarified yet. In this study, we performed 16S rRNA gene sequencing to characterize the gut microbial community among AIS patients with acute COVID-19 infection, AIS patients with post-acute COVID-19 infection, and AIS patients without COVID-19 infection. We found that AIS patients with acute COVID-19 experienced poorer recovery and significant gut dysbiosis, characterized by higher levels of <i>Enterobacteriaceae</i> and lower levels of <i>Ruminococcaceae</i> and <i>Lachnospiraceae</i>. Furthermore, a shorter time window (less than 28 days) between COVID-19 infection and stroke was identified as a risk factor for poor functional outcomes in AIS patients with COVID-19, and the enrichment of <i>Enterobacteriaceae</i> was indicated as a mediator in the relationship between infection time window and poor stroke outcomes. Our findings highlight the importance of early intervention after COVID-19 infection, especially by regulating the gut microbiota, which plays a role in the prognosis of AIS patients with COVID-19 infection.IMPORTANCEThe gut microbiota plays an important role in the association between respiratory system and cerebrovascular system through the gut-lung axis and gut-brain axis. However, the specific connection between gut bacteria and the functional outcomes of acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients with COVID-19 is not fully understood yet. In our study, we observed a significant decrease in bacterial diversity and shifts in the abundance of key bacterial families in AIS patients with acute COVID-19 infection. Furthermore, we identified that the time window was a critical influence factor for stroke outcomes, and the enrichment of <i>Enterobacteriaceae</i> acted as a mediator in the relationship between the infection time window and poor stroke outcomes. Our research provides a new perspective on the complex interplay among AIS, COVID-19 infection, and gut microbiota dysbiosis. Moreover, recognizing <i>Enterobacteriaceae</i> as a potential mediator of poor stroke prognosis offers a novel avenue for future exploration and therapeutic interventions.


35477134|t|Effects of therapeutic levels of dietary antibiotics on the cecal microbiome composition of broiler chickens.
35477134|w|Seyed Hossien Kairmi; Khaled Taha-Abdelaziz; Alexander Yitbarek; Mehdi Sargolzaei; Heidi Spahany; Jake Astill; Bahram Shojadoost; Mohammadali Alizadeh; Raveendra R Kulkarni; John Parkinson; Shayan Sharif
35477134|j|Poultry science
35477134|y|2022
35477134|a|Dietary antibiotics, including antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs), have been commonly used to improve health and growth of poultry. The present study investigated the effects of therapeutic doses of dietary antibiotics, including bacitracin methylene disalicylate (BMD), penicillin G potassium (PP) and an ionophore (salinomycin, SA), on the cecal microbiome of chickens. BMD and SA treatments were given as dietary supplements from d 1 to 35 of age. The SAPP (salinomycin+ penicillin G potassium) group was given SA as a dietary supplement from d 1 to 35 of age and PP was added to drinking water from d 19 to 24 of age to simulate common practices for control of necrotic enteritis in broilers. The cecal contents were collected from all treatment groups on d 10, 24, and 35 of age and DNA was extracted for metagenomic analysis of the cecal microbiome. The results revealed that dietary or water supplementation of therapeutic levels of antibiotics and ionophores to chickens significantly altered the cecal microbial homeostasis during different stages of the chicken life. The alpha diversity analysis showed that BMD, SA, and SAPP treatments decreased diversity and evenness of the cecal microbiome of treated chickens on d 10 of age. Species richness was also reduced on d 35 following treatment with BMD. Beta diversity analyses revealed that SAPP and BMD induced significant changes in the relative abundance of Gram-positive and -negative bacteria on d 10, while no significant differences were observed on d 24. On d 35, the non-treated control group had higher relative abundance of unclassified Gram-positive and -negative bacteria compared to SA, SAPP, and BMD treatment groups. Overall, despite their beneficial role in controlling necrotic enteritis outbreaks, the findings of this study highlight the potential negative effects of dietary supplementation of therapeutic levels of antibiotics on the gut microbiome and suggest that adjusting gut bacteria may be required to restore microbial richness and diversity of the gut microbiome following treatment with these antibiotics.


32982910|t|Gut-Brain Axis: Potential Factors Involved in the Pathogenesis of Parkinson's Disease.
32982910|w|Yin-Xia Chao; Muhammad Yaaseen Gulam; Nicholas Shyh Jenn Chia; Lei Feng; Olaf Rotzschke; Eng-King Tan
32982910|j|Frontiers in neurology
32982910|y|2020
32982910|a|Increasing evidence suggests an association between gastrointestinal (GI) disorders and susceptibility and progress of Parkinson's disease (PD). Gut-brain axis has been proposed to play important roles in the pathogenesis of PD, though the exact pathophysiologic mechanism has yet to be elucidated. Here, we discuss the common factors involved in both PD and GI disorders, including genes, altered gut microbiota, diet, environmental toxins, and altered mucosal immunity. Large-scale prospective clinical studies are needed to define the exact relationship between dietary factors, microbiome, and genetic factors in PD. Identification of early diagnostic markers and demonstration of the efficacy of diet modulation and regulation of gut microbiome through specific therapeutics can potentially change the treatment paradigm for PD.


32566740|t|Characterizing dysbiosis of gut microbiome in PD: evidence for overabundance of opportunistic pathogens.
32566740|w|Zachary D Wallen; Mary Appah; Marissa N Dean; Cheryl L Sesler; Stewart A Factor; Eric Molho; Cyrus P Zabetian; David G Standaert; Haydeh Payami
32566740|j|NPJ Parkinson's disease
32566740|y|2020
32566740|a|In Parkinson's disease (PD), gastrointestinal features are common and often precede the motor signs. Braak and colleagues proposed that PD may start in the gut, triggered by a pathogen, and spread to the brain. Numerous studies have examined the gut microbiome in PD; all found it to be altered, but found inconsistent results on associated microorganisms. Studies to date have been small (<i>N</i> = 20 to 306) and are difficult to compare or combine due to varied methodology. We conducted a microbiome-wide association study (MWAS) with two large datasets for internal replication (<i>N</i> = 333 and 507). We used uniform methodology when possible, interrogated confounders, and applied two statistical tests for concordance, followed by correlation network analysis to infer interactions. Fifteen genera were associated with PD at a microbiome-wide significance level, in both datasets, with both methods, with or without covariate adjustment. The associations were not independent, rather they represented three clusters of co-occurring microorganisms. Cluster 1 was composed of opportunistic pathogens and all were elevated in PD. Cluster 2 was short-chain fatty acid (SCFA)-producing bacteria and all were reduced in PD. Cluster 3 was carbohydrate-metabolizing probiotics and were elevated in PD. Depletion of anti-inflammatory SCFA-producing bacteria and elevated levels of probiotics are confirmatory. Overabundance of opportunistic pathogens is an original finding and their identity provides a lead to experimentally test their role in PD.


31273718|t|The Contribution of Inflammation to Autism Spectrum Disorders: Recent Clinical Evidence.
31273718|w|J Prata; A S Machado; O von Doellinger; M I Almeida; M A Barbosa; R Coelho; S G Santos
31273718|j|Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.)
31273718|y|2019
31273718|a|Autism comprises a complex and heterogeneous spectrum of neurodevelopmental disorders, usually termed autism spectrum disorders (ASD). It is more prevalent in males than females, and genetic and environmental factors are believed to account in similar percentages to the development of ASD. In recent years, the contribution of inflammation and inflammatory mediators to disease aetiology and perpetuation has been the object of intense research. In this chapter, inflammatory aspects that contribute to ASD are discussed, including abnormal microglia activation and polarization phenotypes, increased systemic levels of pro-inflammatory mediators, and altered patterns of immune cell response to activation stimuli. Also, inflammation in the context of gut microbiome and the impact of inflammation on gender prevalence of ASD are considered. Finally, treatment impact on inflammatory parameters and the potential for use of anti-inflammatory drugs, alone or in combination with antipsychotics, to manage ASD are examined.


37954149|t|Reproducible microbiome composition signatures of anxiety and depressive symptoms.
37954149|w|Afroditi Kouraki; Anthony Kelly; Amrita Vijay; Sameer Gohir; Stuart Astbury; Vasileios Georgopoulos; Bonnie Millar; David Andrew Walsh; Eamonn Ferguson; Cristina Menni; Ana M Valdes
37954149|j|Computational and structural biotechnology journal
37954149|y|2023
37954149|a|The gut microbiome is a significant contributor to mental health, with growing evidence linking its composition to anxiety and depressive disorders. Gut microbiome composition is associated with signs of anxiety and depression both in clinically diagnosed mood disorders and subclinically in the general population and may be influenced by dietary fibre intake and the presence of chronic pain. We provide an update of current evidence on the role of gut microbiome composition in depressive and anxiety disorders or symptoms by reviewing available studies. Analysing data from three independent cohorts (osteoarthritis 1 (OA1); n = 46, osteoarthritis 2 (OA2); n = 58, and healthy controls (CON); n = 67), we identified microbial composition signatures of anxiety and depressive symptoms at genus level and cross-validated our findings performing meta-analyses of our results with results from previously published studies. The genera <i>Bifidobacterium</i> (fixed-effect beta (95% CI) = -0.22 (-0.34, -0.10), p = 3.90e-04) and <i>Lachnospiraceae NK4A136 group</i> (fixed-effect beta (95% CI) = -0.09 (-0.13, -0.05), p = 2.53e-06) were found to be the best predictors of anxiety and depressive symptoms, respectively, across our three cohorts and published literature taking into account demographic and lifestyle covariates, such as fibre intake. The association with anxiety was robust in accounting for heterogeneity between cohorts and supports previous observations of the potential prophylactic effect of <i>Bifidobacterium</i> against anxiety symptoms.


31812830|t|The microbiome-gut-brain axis in acute and chronic brain diseases.
31812830|w|Corinne Benakis; Camille Martin-Gallausiaux; Jean-Pierre Trezzi; Philip Melton; Arthur Liesz; Paul Wilmes
31812830|j|Current opinion in neurobiology
31812830|y|2020
31812830|a|The gut microbiome - the largest reservoir of microorganisms of the human body - is emerging as an important player in neurodevelopment and ageing as well as in brain diseases including stroke, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. The growing knowledge on mediators and triggered pathways has advanced our understanding of the interactions along the gut-brain axis. Gut bacteria produce neuroactive compounds and can modulate neuronal function, plasticity and behavior. Furthermore, intestinal microorganisms impact the host's metabolism and immune status which in turn affect neuronal pathways in the enteric and central nervous systems. Here, we discuss the recent insights from human studies and animal models on the bi-directional communication along the microbiome-gut-brain axis in both acute and chronic brain diseases.


30532687|t|Gut thinking: the gut microbiome and mental health beyond the head.
30532687|w|Grace Lucas
30532687|j|Microbial ecology in health and disease
30532687|y|2018
30532687|a|<b>Background:</b> In recent decades, dominant models of mental illness have become increasingly focused on the head, with mental disorders being figured as brain disorders. However, research into the active role that the microbiome-gut-brain axis plays in affecting mood and behaviour may lead to the conclusion that mental health is more than an internalised problem of individual brains. <b>Objective:</b> This article explores the implications of shifting understandings about mental health that have come about through research into links between the gut microbiome and mental health problems such as depression and anxiety. It aims to analyse the different ways that the lines between mind and body and mental and physical health are re-shaped by this research, which is starting to inform clinical and public understanding. <b>Design:</b> As mental health has become a pressing issue of political and public concern it has become increasingly constructed in socio-cultural and personal terms beyond clinical spaces, requiring a conceptual response that exceeds biomedical inquiry. This article argues that an interdisciplinary critical medical humanities approach is well positioned to analyse the impact of microbiome-gut-brain research on conceptions of mind. <b>Results:</b> The entanglement of mind and matter evinced by microbiome-gut-brain axis research potentially provides a different way to conceptualise the physical and social concomitants of mental distress. <b>Conclusion:</b> Mental health is not narrowly located in the head but is assimilated by the physical body and intermingled with the natural world, requiring different methods of research to unfold the meanings and implications of gut thinking for conceptions of human selfhood.


37228982|t|Gut-brain axis: altered microbiome and depression - review.
37228982|w|Anmol Mohan; Swathi Godugu; Saumya S Joshi; Kenisha B Shah; Srija C Vanka; Hania Shakil; Dhanush P; Swathi Veliginti; Prajwal S Sure; Jyothsna Goranti
37228982|j|Annals of medicine and surgery (2012)
37228982|y|2023
37228982|a|The concept of a 'gut-brain axis' was recently developed when the complex communications between the brain and the gut became evident. The interaction may affect emotions, motivation, mood, and higher cognitive functions as well as gut homeostasis. Human microbe symbiosis's merits are now acknowledged to transcend human mental health. Research has recently indicated that the gut-brain axis plays a vital role in brain health maintenance. The term 'gut-brain axis' can only partially capture the intricacy of these interactions. Dysbiosis of the gut commensals has been seen in patients with psychiatric diseases, such as depression. Major depressive disorder is caused by complicated interactions between the individual gene and the environment. In a forced swimming test, P. Zheng <i>et al.</i> discovered that germ-free mice with no gut microbiota had a shorter immobility duration than healthy mice. More radical effects were expressed on the use of probiotics rather than prebiotics and postbiotics in reducing the symptoms of depression in patients with major depressive disorder. One of prime importance can be given to exploring more microbiota to investigate the better therapeutic effects of probiotics, prebiotics, and postbiotics.


34589003|t|Gut Microbiome: A Potential Indicator for Differential Diagnosis of Major Depressive Disorder and General Anxiety Disorder.
34589003|w|Zaiquan Dong; Xiaoling Shen; Yanni Hao; Jin Li; Haoran Li; Haizheng Xu; Li Yin; Weihong Kuang
34589003|j|Frontiers in psychiatry
34589003|y|2021
34589003|a|<b>Background:</b> Major depressive disorder (MDD) and general anxiety disorder (GAD) share many common features, leading to numerous challenges in their differential diagnosis. Given the importance of the microbiota-gut-brain axis, we investigated the differences in gut microbiota between representative cases of these two diseases and sought to develop a microbiome-based approach for their differential diagnosis. <b>Methods:</b> We enrolled 23 patients with MDD, 21 with GAD, and 10 healthy subjects (healthy crowd, HC) in the present study. We used 16S rRNA gene-sequencing analysis to determine the microbial compositions of the gut microbiome based on Illumina Miseq and according to the standard protocol. <b>Results:</b> GAD showed a significant difference in microbiota richness and diversity as compared with HC. Additionally, Otu24167, Otu19140, and Otu19751 were significantly decreased in MDD relative to HC, and Otu2581 and Otu10585 were significantly increased in GAD relative to MDD. At the genus level, the abundances of <i>Sutterella</i> and <i>Fusicatenibacter</i> were significantly lower in MDD relative to HC, and the abundances of <i>Fusicatenibacter</i> and <i>Christensenellaceae</i>_R7_group were significantly lower in GAD than in HC. The abundance of <i>Sutterella</i> was significantly higher whereas that of <i>Faecalibacterium</i> was significantly lower in GAD relative to MDD. Moreover, we observed that <i>Christensenellaceae</i>_R7_group negatively correlated with the factor score (Limited to Hopelessness) and total score of HAMD-24 (<i>p</i> < 0.05), whereas <i>Fusicatenibacter</i> negatively correlated with FT4 (<i>p</i> < 0.05). Furthermore, the GAD group showed significant differences at the genus level for <i>Faecalibacterium</i>, which negatively correlated with PTC (<i>p</i> < 0.05). <b>Conclusions:</b> This study elucidated a unique gut-microbiome signature associated with MDD and GAD that could facilitate differential diagnosis and targeted therapy.


37659269|t|Disordered gut microbiota and changes in short-chain fatty acids and inflammatory processes in stress-vulnerable mice.
37659269|w|Wenjuan Han; Yaxin Zheng; Lan Wang; Cuixia An
37659269|j|Journal of neuroimmunology
37659269|y|2023
37659269|a|Long-term exposure to chronic stress increases the incidence of depression. However, chronic stress is an associated risk factor in only a subset of individuals. Inflammation has been identified as a putative mechanism promoting stress vulnerability. Because of the gut microbiota's potential role as a source of inflammatory substances, short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) may exert their influence on inflammation, emotional states, and cognition via the gut-brain axis. In this study, Classic behavioral tests were used to categorize C57BL/6 J mice into a CUMS-vulnerable and a CUMS-resilient group after they were exposed to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS). We compared the 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene sequences retrieved from fecal samples between control, CUMS-vulnerable, and CUMS-resilient mice. SCFAs in fecal samples were detected by liquid chromatography and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Hippocampal cytokine production and TLR4/MYD88/NF-κB inflammatory pathway activation were evaluated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) and western blotting. Then, we supplemented SCFAs in CUMS mice. we observed depression-like behavior and the expression of TLR4/MYD88/NF-κB inflammatory pathway in hippocampus of SCFAs supplementation mice. Susceptible mice to CUMS showed more severe symptoms of depression and anxiety, α diversity was significantly different, as well as higher expression of interleukin (IL)-1β and TLR4/MYD88/NF-κB inflammatory pathway components in the hippocampus. SCFA levels in the feces were significantly higher in CUMS-resilient mice than in control mice. Depressive behavior was reversed in CUMS-SCFAs group, and the protein level of TLR4/MYD88/NF-κB in hippocampus was decreased. Overall, these results provide new light on the possible involvement of the microbiome in the gut-brain axis development in depressive disorder and provide a theoretical basis for identifying novel therapeutic targets.


37181872|t|Autism spectrum disorder research: knowledge mapping of progress and focus between 2011 and 2022.
37181872|w|Miaomiao Jiang; Tianlan Lu; Kang Yang; Xianjing Li; Liyang Zhao; Dai Zhang; Jun Li; Lifang Wang
37181872|j|Frontiers in psychiatry
37181872|y|2023
37181872|a|In recent years, a large number of studies have focused on autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The present study used bibliometric analysis to describe the state of ASD research over the past decade and identify its trends and research fronts. Studies on ASD published from 2011 to 2022 were obtained from the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC). Bibliometrix, CiteSpace, and VOSviewer were used for bibliometric analysis. A total of 57,108 studies were included in the systematic search, and articles were published in more than 6,000 journals. The number of publications increased by 181.7% (2,623 in 2011 and 7,390 in 2021). The articles in the field of genetics are widely cited in immunology, clinical research, and psychological research. Keywords co-occurrence analysis revealed that "causative mechanisms," "clinical features," and "intervention features" were the three main clusters of ASD research. Over the past decade, genetic variants associated with ASD have gained increasing attention, and immune dysbiosis and gut microbiota are the new development frontiers after 2015. This study uses a bibliometric approach to visualize and quantitatively describe autism research over the last decade. Neuroscience, genetics, brain imaging studies, and gut microbiome studies improve our understanding of autism. In addition, the microbe-gut-brain axis may be an exciting research direction for ASD in the future. Therefore, through visual analysis of autism literature, this paper shows the development process, research hotspots, and cutting-edge trends in this field to provide theoretical reference for the development of autism in the future.


26810963|t|Dietary fiber intake and depressive symptoms in Japanese employees: The Furukawa Nutrition and Health Study.
26810963|w|Takako Miki; Masafumi Eguchi; Kayo Kurotani; Takeshi Kochi; Keisuke Kuwahara; Rie Ito; Yasumi Kimura; Hiroko Tsuruoka; Shamima Akter; Ikuko Kashino; Isamu Kabe; Norito Kawakami; Tetsuya Mizoue
26810963|j|Nutrition (Burbank, Los Angeles County, Calif.)
26810963|y|2016
26810963|a|Dietary fiber may play a favorable role in mood through gut microbiota, but epidemiologic evidence linking mood to dietary fiber intake is scarce in free-living populations. We investigated cross-sectionally the associations of dietary intakes of total, soluble, insoluble, and sources of fiber with depressive symptoms among Japanese workers. Participants were 1977 employees ages 19-69 y. Dietary intake was assessed via a validated, brief self-administered diet history questionnaire. Depressive symptoms were assessed using the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale. Logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios of depressive symptoms adjusted for a range of dietary and non-dietary potential confounders. Dietary fiber intake from vegetables and fruits was significantly inversely associated with depressive symptoms. The multivariable-adjusted odds ratios (95% confidence intervals) for the lowest through the highest tertile of vegetable and fruit fiber were 1.00 (reference), 0.80 (0.60-1.05), and 0.65 (0.45-0.95), respectively (P for trend = 0.03). Dietary intake of total, soluble, insoluble, and cereal fiber was not associated with depressive symptoms. Higher dietary fiber intake from vegetables and fruits may be associated with lower likelihood of having depressive symptoms.


37619773|t|The role of the indoles in microbiota-gut-brain axis and potential therapeutic targets: A focus on human neurological and neuropsychiatric diseases.
37619773|w|Yi Zhou; Yue Chen; Hui He; Meichang Peng; Meiqin Zeng; Haitao Sun
37619773|j|Neuropharmacology
37619773|y|2023
37619773|a|At present, a large number of relevant studies have suggested that the changes in gut microbiota are related to the course of nervous system diseases, and the microbiota-gut-brain axis is necessary for the proper functioning of the nervous system. Indole and its derivatives, as the products of the gut microbiota metabolism of tryptophan, can be used as ligands to regulate inflammation and autoimmune response in vivo. In recent years, some studies have found that the levels of indole and its derivatives differ significantly between patients with central nervous system diseases and healthy individuals, suggesting that they may be important mediators for the involvement of the microbiota-gut-brain axis in the disease course. Tryptophan metabolites produced by gut microbiota are involved in multiple physiological reactions, take indole for example, it participates in the process of inflammation and anti-inflammatory effects through various cellular physiological activities mediated by aromatic hydrocarbon receptors (AHR), which can influence a variety of neurological and neuropsychiatric diseases. This review mainly explores and summarizes the relationship between indoles and human neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders, including ischemic stroke, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, cognitive impairment, depression and anxiety, and puts forward that the level of indoles can be regulated through various direct or indirect ways to improve the prognosis of central nervous system diseases and reverse the dysfunction of the microbiota-gut-brain axis. This article is part of the Special Issue on "Microbiome & the Brain: Mechanisms & Maladies".


31341063|t|The gut microbiota influences skeletal muscle mass and function in mice.
31341063|w|Shawon Lahiri; Hyejin Kim; Isabel Garcia-Perez; Musarrat Maisha Reza; Katherine A Martin; Parag Kundu; Laura M Cox; Joel Selkrig; Joram M Posma; Hongbo Zhang; Parasuraman Padmanabhan; Catherine Moret; Balázs Gulyás; Martin J Blaser; Johan Auwerx; Elaine Holmes; Jeremy Nicholson; Walter Wahli; Sven Pettersson
31341063|j|Science translational medicine
31341063|y|2019
31341063|a|The functional interactions between the gut microbiota and the host are important for host physiology, homeostasis, and sustained health. We compared the skeletal muscle of germ-free mice that lacked a gut microbiota to the skeletal muscle of pathogen-free mice that had a gut microbiota. Compared to pathogen-free mouse skeletal muscle, germ-free mouse skeletal muscle showed atrophy, decreased expression of insulin-like growth factor 1, and reduced transcription of genes associated with skeletal muscle growth and mitochondrial function. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry analysis of skeletal muscle, liver, and serum from germ-free mice revealed multiple changes in the amounts of amino acids, including glycine and alanine, compared to pathogen-free mice. Germ-free mice also showed reduced serum choline, the precursor of acetylcholine, the key neurotransmitter that signals between muscle and nerve at neuromuscular junctions. Reduced expression of genes encoding Rapsyn and Lrp4, two proteins important for neuromuscular junction assembly and function, was also observed in skeletal muscle from germ-free mice compared to pathogen-free mice. Transplanting the gut microbiota from pathogen-free mice into germ-free mice resulted in an increase in skeletal muscle mass, a reduction in muscle atrophy markers, improved oxidative metabolic capacity of the muscle, and elevated expression of the neuromuscular junction assembly genes <i>Rapsyn</i> and <i>Lrp4</i> Treating germ-free mice with short-chain fatty acids (microbial metabolites) partly reversed skeletal muscle impairments. Our results suggest a role for the gut microbiota in regulating skeletal muscle mass and function in mice.


36389228|t|The interplay between the gut-brain axis and the microbiome: A perspective on psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders.
36389228|w|Yasir Bashir; Asad U Khan
36389228|j|Frontiers in neuroscience
36389228|y|2022
36389228|a|What is the effect of our gut microbial flora on brain? Does the gut microbiome have any role in the causation of psychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases? Does the effect of gut microbiota traverse the gut-brain axis? Questions like these have captured the interest and imagination of the scientific community for quite some time now. Research in the quest for answers to these questions, to unravel the potential role of the microbiota inhabiting the gut in controlling brain functions, has progressed manifold over the last two decades. Although the possibility of microbiome as a key susceptibility factor for neurological disorders viz. Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, and autism spectrum disorder has bolstered by an increase in the clinical and preclinical evidence, the field is still in its infancy. Given the fact that the diversity of the gut microbiota is affected by various factors including the diet and exercise, the interpretation of such data becomes all the more difficult. Also, such studies have been mostly conducted on animal models, so there is a need for randomized controlled trials in human subjects, corroborated by longitudinal studies, to establish if modulating the gut microbiota can unravel novel therapeutic interventions. Exploring the genomic, metagenomic and metabolomic data from clinical subjects with psychiatric and neurological diseases can prove to be a helpful guide in individual treatment selection.


36750613|t|Gut microbiota of Parkinson's disease in an appendectomy cohort: a preliminary study.
36750613|w|Keiichi Nakahara; Shunya Nakane; Kazuo Ishii; Tokunori Ikeda; Yukio Ando
36750613|j|Scientific reports
36750613|y|2023
36750613|a|In patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), α-synuclein pathology is thought to spread to the brain via the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve. The link between the gut microbiome and PD has been explored in various studies. The appendix might play an important role in immunity by maintaining the microbiota as a reservoir. In recent times, appendectomy has been linked to a lower risk of PD, possibly owing to the role of the appendix in altering the gut microbiome. We aimed to elucidate whether the gut microbiota affects PD development in the appendectomy cohort. We analyzed the fecal microbial composition in patients with PD and healthy controls with and without a history of appendectomy. The abundance of microbes from the family Enterobacteriaceae was higher in feces samples from patients with Parkinson's disease compared to that in samples collected from healthy controls. Furthermore, there was a significant phylogenetic difference between patients with PD and healthy controls who had undergone appendectomy. There was a significant phylogenetic difference between patients with PD and HCs who had undergone APP. These results suggest the correlation between gut microbiota and PD in patients who have undergone APP.


34853754|t|Role of Gastrointestinal Dysbiosis and Fecal Transplantation in Parkinson's Disease.
34853754|w|Rahul Jena; Ruchi Jain; Suchitra Muralidharan; Vijaya Lakshmi Yanamala; Zainab Zubair; Ketan Kantamaneni; Krishi Jalla; Mahvish Renzu; Michael Alfonso
34853754|j|Cureus
34853754|y|2021
34853754|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases with a high rate of morbidity. It is associated with dopaminergic neuron loss and is fairly common in the elderly population. Recently, there has been a growing interest in the role of the gut microbiome in the pathogenesis of PD and thus studies addressing the methods to modulate the microbiota are becoming increasingly popular. Fecal microbiota transplant (FMT) is one of these methods and is effective in certain intestinal and extraintestinal conditions. This review aims to talk about gastrointestinal dysbiosis and how the reconstruction of this microbiome via FMT could potentially be used as a treatment modality in the future. We went through various studies and collected data relevant to our topic from the previous five years. The studies selected include reviews, observational studies, animal studies, case reports, and some grey literature. We concluded that although it has great potential as a therapeutic modality in the future, it is limited by several factors such as variability among the results of most clinical studies and the lack of large sample sizes. Therefore, there is a need for high-quality clinical trials with larger sample sizes to gather enough clinical evidence so that FMT can qualify as a widely recommended therapeutic measure.


36877601|t|The role of vitamin D in depression and anxiety disorders: a review of the literature.
36877601|w|Karisa Renteria; Hien Nguyen; Gar Yee Koh
36877601|j|Nutritional neuroscience
36877601|y|2024
36877601|a|Prevalence of mental health disorders continue to increase worldwide. Over the past decades, suboptimal vitamin D (VD) levels and gut dysbiosis have been associated with neurological dysfunction and psychiatric disorders. In this review, we examined the available literature on VD and mental health disorders, particularly depression and anxiety, in both clinical and pre-clinical studies. Our extensive review failed to find a link between VD deficiency, depression, and anxiety-related behavior in preclinical animal models. However, strong evidence suggests that VD supplementation may alleviate symptoms in chronically stressed rodents, with some promising evidence from clinical studies. Further, fecal microbiota transplantations suggest a potential role of gut microbiota in neuropsychiatric disorders, although the underlying mechanisms remain to be fully elucidated. It has been postulated that serotonin, primarily produced by gut bacteria, may be a crucial factor. Hence, whether VD has the ability to impact gut microbiota and modulate serotonin synthesis warrants further investigation. Taken together, literature has suggested that VD may serve as a key regulator in the gut-brain axis to modulate gut microbiota and alleviate symptoms of depression and anxiety. The inconsistent results of VD supplementation in clinical studies, particularly among VD deficient participants, suggests that current intake recommendations may need to be re-evaluated for individuals at-risk (i.e. prior to diagnosis) of developing depression and/or anxiety.


26590418|t|Personalized Nutrition by Prediction of Glycemic Responses.
26590418|w|David Zeevi; Tal Korem; Niv Zmora; David Israeli; Daphna Rothschild; Adina Weinberger; Orly Ben-Yacov; Dar Lador; Tali Avnit-Sagi; Maya Lotan-Pompan; Jotham Suez; Jemal Ali Mahdi; Elad Matot; Gal Malka; Noa Kosower; Michal Rein; Gili Zilberman-Schapira; Lenka Dohnalová; Meirav Pevsner-Fischer; Rony Bikovsky; Zamir Halpern; Eran Elinav; Eran Segal
26590418|j|Cell
26590418|y|2015
26590418|a|Elevated postprandial blood glucose levels constitute a global epidemic and a major risk factor for prediabetes and type II diabetes, but existing dietary methods for controlling them have limited efficacy. Here, we continuously monitored week-long glucose levels in an 800-person cohort, measured responses to 46,898 meals, and found high variability in the response to identical meals, suggesting that universal dietary recommendations may have limited utility. We devised a machine-learning algorithm that integrates blood parameters, dietary habits, anthropometrics, physical activity, and gut microbiota measured in this cohort and showed that it accurately predicts personalized postprandial glycemic response to real-life meals. We validated these predictions in an independent 100-person cohort. Finally, a blinded randomized controlled dietary intervention based on this algorithm resulted in significantly lower postprandial responses and consistent alterations to gut microbiota configuration. Together, our results suggest that personalized diets may successfully modify elevated postprandial blood glucose and its metabolic consequences. VIDEO ABSTRACT.


38613114|t|Mapping Treatment Advances in the Neurobiology of Binge Eating Disorder: A Concept Paper.
38613114|w|Brooke Donnelly; Phillipa Hay
38613114|j|Nutrients
38613114|y|2024
38613114|a|Binge eating disorder (BED) is a complex and heritable mental health disorder, with genetic, neurobiological, neuroendocrinological, environmental and developmental factors all demonstrated to contribute to the aetiology of this illness. Although psychotherapy is the gold standard for treating BED, a significant subgroup of those treated do not recover. Neurobiological research highlights aberrances in neural regions associated with reward processing, emotion processing, self-regulation and executive function processes, which are clear therapeutic targets for future treatment frameworks. Evidence is emerging of the microbiota-gut-brain axis, which may mediate energy balance, high-lighting a possible underlying pathogenesis factor of BED, and provides a potential therapeutic strategy.


36672595|t|Toxin-like Peptides from the Bacterial Cultures Derived from Gut Microbiome Infected by SARS-CoV-2-New Data for a Possible Role in the Long COVID Pattern.
36672595|w|Carlo Brogna; Simone Cristoni; Barbara Brogna; Domenico Rocco Bisaccia; Giuliano Marino; Valentina Viduto; Luigi Montano; Marina Piscopo
36672595|j|Biomedicines
36672595|y|2022
36672595|a|It has been 3 years since the beginning of the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak, however it is as yet little known how to care for the acute COVID-19 and long COVID patients. COVID-19 clinical manifestations are of both pulmonary and extra-pulmonary types. Extra-pulmonary ones include extreme tiredness (fatigue), shortness of breath, muscle aches, hyposmia, dysgeusia, and other neurological manifestations. In other autoimmune diseases, such as Parkinson's disease (PD) or Alzheimer's Disease (AD), it is well known that role of acetylcholine is crucial in olfactory dysfunction. We have already observed the presence of toxin-like peptides in plasma, urine, and faecal samples from COVID-19 patients, which are very similar to molecules known to alter acetylcholine signaling. After observing the production of these peptides in bacterial cultures, we have performed additional proteomics analyses to better understand their behavior and reported the extended data from our latest in vitro experiment. It seems that the gut microbiome continues to produce toxin-like peptides also after the decrease of RNA SARS-CoV-2 viral load at molecular tests. These toxicological interactions between the gut/human microbiome bacteria and the virus suggest a new scenario in the study of the clinical symptoms in long COVID and also in acute COVID-19 patients. It is discussed that in the bacteriophage similar behavior, the presence of toxins produced by bacteria continuously after viral aggression can be blocked using an appropriate combination of certain drugs.


33669008|t|The Role of Gut Bacterial Metabolites in Brain Development, Aging and Disease.
33669008|w|Shirley Mei-Sin Tran; M Hasan Mohajeri
33669008|j|Nutrients
33669008|y|2021
33669008|a|In the last decade, emerging evidence has reported correlations between the gut microbiome and human health and disease, including those affecting the brain. We performed a systematic assessment of the available literature focusing on gut bacterial metabolites and their associations with diseases of the central nervous system (CNS). The bacterial metabolites short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) as well as non-SCFAs like amino acid metabolites (AAMs) and bacterial amyloids are described in particular. We found significantly altered SCFA levels in patients with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), affective disorders, multiple sclerosis (MS) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Non-SCFAs yielded less significantly distinct changes in faecal levels of patients and healthy controls, with the majority of findings were derived from urinary and blood samples. Preclinical studies have implicated different bacterial metabolites with potentially beneficial as well as detrimental mechanisms in brain diseases. Examples include immunomodulation and changes in catecholamine production by histone deacetylase inhibition, anti-inflammatory effects through activity on the aryl hydrocarbon receptor and involvement in protein misfolding. Overall, our findings highlight the existence of altered bacterial metabolites in patients across various brain diseases, as well as potential neuroactive effects by which gut-derived SCFAs, p-cresol, indole derivatives and bacterial amyloids could impact disease development and progression. The findings summarized in this review could lead to further insights into the gut-brain-axis and thus into potential diagnostic, therapeutic or preventive strategies in brain diseases.


32799901|t|Ingestion of Lactobacillus intestinalis and Lactobacillus reuteri causes depression- and anhedonia-like phenotypes in antibiotic-treated mice via the vagus nerve.
32799901|w|Siming Wang; Tamaki Ishima; Jiancheng Zhang; Youge Qu; Lijia Chang; Yaoyu Pu; Yuko Fujita; Yunfei Tan; Xingming Wang; Kenji Hashimoto
32799901|j|Journal of neuroinflammation
32799901|y|2020
32799901|a|The brain-gut-microbiota axis plays a role in the pathogenesis of stress-related disorders such as depression. In this study, we examined the effects of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) in mice with antibiotic-treated microbiota depletion. The fecal microbiota was obtained from mice subjected to chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) and control (no CSDS) mice. FMT from these two groups was performed to antibiotic-treated mice. 16S rRNA analysis was performed to examine the composition of gut microbiota. Furthermore, the effects of subdiaphragmatic vagotomy in depression-like phenotypes after ingestion of microbes were examined. The ingestion of fecal microbiota from CSDS-susceptible mice resulted in an anhedonia-like phenotype, higher plasma levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), and decreased expression of synaptic proteins in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in antibiotic-treated mice but not in water-treated mice. 16S rRNA analysis suggested that two microbes (Lactobacillus intestinalis and Lactobacillus reuteri) may be responsible for the anhedonia-like phenotype in antibiotic-treated mice after FMT. Ingestion of these two microbes for 14 days led to depression- and anhedonia-like phenotypes, higher plasma IL-6 levels, and decreased expression of synaptic proteins in the PFC of antibiotic-treated mice. Interestingly, subdiaphragmatic vagotomy significantly blocked the development of behavioral abnormalities, elevation of plasma IL-6 levels, and downregulation of synaptic proteins in the PFC after ingestion of these two microbes. These findings suggest that microbiota depletion using an antibiotic cocktail is essential for the development of FMT-induced behavioral changes and that the vagus nerve plays a key role in behavioral abnormalities in antibiotic-treated mice after the ingestion of L. intestinalis and L. reuteri. Therefore, it is likely that the brain-gut-microbiota axis participates in the pathogenesis of depression via the vagus nerve.


33087991|t|Human Gut Microbiota and Mental Health: Advancements and Challenges in Microbe-Based Therapeutic Interventions.
33087991|w|Helianthous Verma; Sonika Phian; Priya Lakra; Jasleen Kaur; Sanjukta Subudhi; Rup Lal; Charu Dogra Rawat
33087991|j|Indian journal of microbiology
33087991|y|2020
33087991|a|Gut microbes play prime role in human health and have shown to exert their influence on various physiological responses including neurological functions. Growing evidences in recent years have indicated a key role of gut microbiota in contributing to mental health. The connection between gut and brain is modulated by microbes via neural, neuroendocrinal and metabolic pathways that are mediated through various neurotransmitters and their precursors, hormones, cytokines and bioactive metabolites. Impaired functioning of this connection can lead to manifestation of mental disorders. Around 1 billion of the world population is reported to suffer from emotional, psychological and neurological imbalances, substance use disorders and cognitive, psychosocial and intellectual disabilities. Thus, it becomes imperative to understand the role of gut microbes in mental disorders. Since variations occur in the conditions associated with different mental disorders and some of them have overlapping symptoms, it becomes important to have a holistic understanding of gut dysbiosis in these disorders. In this review, we consolidate the recent data on alterations in the gut microbes and its consequences in various neurological, psychological and neurodegenerative disorders. Further, considering these evidences, several studies have been undertaken to specifically target the gut microbiota through different therapeutic interventions including administration of live microbes (psychobiotics) to treat mental health disorders and/or their symptoms. We review these studies and propose that an integrative and personalized approach, where combinations of microbe-based therapeutic interventions to modulate gut microbes and in-use psychological treatment practices can be integrated and based on patient's gut microbiome can be potentially adopted for effective treatment of the mental disorders.


38278378|t|Fermented foods: Harnessing their potential to modulate the microbiota-gut-brain axis for mental health.
38278378|w|Ramya Balasubramanian; Elizabeth Schneider; Eoin Gunnigle; Paul D Cotter; John F Cryan
38278378|j|Neuroscience and biobehavioral reviews
38278378|y|2024
38278378|a|Over the past two decades, whole food supplementation strategies have been leveraged to target mental health. In addition, there has been increasing attention on the ability of gut microbes, so called psychobiotics, to positively impact behaviour though the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Fermented foods offer themselves as a combined whole food microbiota modulating intervention. Indeed, they contain potentially beneficial microbes, microbial metabolites and other bioactives, which are being harnessed to target the microbiota-gut-brain axis for positive benefits. This review highlights the diverse nature of fermented foods in terms of the raw materials used and type of fermentation employed, and summarises their potential to shape composition of the gut microbiota, the gut to brain communication pathways including the immune system and, ultimately, modulate the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Throughout, we identify knowledge gaps and challenges faced in designing human studies for investigating the mental health-promoting potential of individual fermented foods or components thereof. Importantly, we also suggest solutions that can advance understanding of the therapeutic merit of fermented foods to modulate the microbiota-gut-brain axis.


38007616|t|Fiber intake and fiber intervention in depression and anxiety: a systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies and randomized controlled trials.
38007616|w|Hajara Aslam; Mojtaba Lotfaliany; Daniel So; Kirsten Berding; Michael Berk; Tetyana Rocks; Meghan Hockey; Felice N Jacka; Wolfgang Marx; John F Cryan; Heidi M Staudacher
38007616|j|Nutrition reviews
38007616|y|2023
38007616|a|Dietary fibers hold potential to influence depressive and anxiety outcomes by modulating the microbiota-gut-brain axis, which is increasingly recognized as an underlying factor in mental health maintenance. Evidence for the effects of fibers on depressive and anxiety outcomes remains unclear. To this end, a systematic literature review and a meta-analysis were conducted that included observational studies and randomized controlled trials (RCTs). The PubMed, Embase, CENTRAL, CINAHL, and PsychINFO databases were searched for eligible studies. Study screening and risk-of-bias assessment were conducted by 2 independent reviewers. Meta-analyses via random effects models were performed to examine the (1) association between fiber intake and depressive and anxiety outcomes in observational studies, and (2) effect of fiber intervention on depressive and anxiety outcomes compared with placebo in RCTs. A total of 181 405 participants were included in 23 observational studies. In cross-sectional studies, an inverse association was observed between fiber intake and depressive (Cohen's d effect size [d]: -0.11; 95% confidence interval [CI]: -0.16, -0.05) and anxiety (d = -0.25; 95%CI, -0.38, -0.12) outcomes. In longitudinal studies, there was an inverse association between fiber intake and depressive outcomes (d = -0.07; 95%CI, -0.11, -0.04). In total, 740 participants were included in 10 RCTs, all of whom used fiber supplements. Of note, only 1 RCT included individuals with a clinical diagnosis of depression. No difference was found between fiber supplementation and placebo for depressive (d = -0.47; 95%CI, -1.26, 0.31) or anxiety (d = -0.30; 95%CI, -0.67, 0.07) outcomes. Although observational data suggest a potential benefit for higher fiber intake for depressive and anxiety outcomes, evidence from current RCTs does not support fiber supplementation for improving depressive or anxiety outcomes. More research, including RCTs in clinical populations and using a broad range of fibers, is needed. PROSPERO registration no. CRD42021274898.


31931033|t|Heat-killed Enterococcus fecalis (EC-12) supplement alters the expression of neurotransmitter receptor genes in the prefrontal cortex and alleviates anxiety-like behavior in mice.
31931033|w|Jun Kambe; Sovijit Watcharin; Yuko Makioka-Itaya; Ryo Inoue; Gen Watanabe; Hirohito Yamaguchi; Kentaro Nagaoka
31931033|j|Neuroscience letters
31931033|y|2020
31931033|a|Gut microbiota plays a crucial role in the maintenance of mental health and influences mental disorders such as depression and anxiety. Several studies have reported the beneficial affects of probiotics in mental health. Heat-killed Enterococcus faecalis strain EC-12 (EC-12), a lactic acid bacterium induces activation of the immune system. However, little is known about the effect of EC-12 on mental health. In the present study, the anti-anxiety effect of EC-12 was elucidated in vivo. Male mice fed on diet supplemented with EC-12 showed decreased anxiety-like behavior in open-field and elevated plus-mazetest. In addition, EC-12 supplementation exhibited an anti-depressive trend in mice subjected to forced swim test. The expression of neurotransmitter receptor genes: Adrb3 and Avpr1a were significantly enhanced in EC-12 supplemented mice compared to that of the control mice. In mice, analyses of gut microbiota composition by next generation sequencing revealed significant increase in Butyricicoccus and Enterococcus with EC-12 supplementation. Significant difference was not detected in the expression of neurotransmitter receptor genes in the prefrontal cortex with the administration of sodium butyrate compared to that of the control group. The mechanism associated with EC-12 mediated reduced anxiety-like behavior and altered gene expression in the brain needs to be further elucidated. Taken together, the present study is the first to report the possibility of exploiting the anti-anxiety effect of heat-killed EC-12 as a novel probiotic to promote mental health.


33717189|t|Microbiome or Infections: Amyloid-Containing Biofilms as a Trigger for Complex Human Diseases.
33717189|w|Amanda L Miller; Shingo Bessho; Kaitlyn Grando; Çagla Tükel
33717189|j|Frontiers in immunology
33717189|y|2021
33717189|a|The human microbiota is the community of microorganisms that live upon or within their human host. The microbiota consists of various microorganisms including bacteria, fungi, viruses, and archaea; the gut microbiota is comprised mostly of bacteria. Many bacterial species within the gut microbiome grow as biofilms, which are multicellular communities embedded in an extracellular matrix. Studies have shown that the relative abundances of bacterial species, and therefore biofilms and bacterial byproducts, change during progression of a variety of human diseases including gastrointestinal, autoimmune, neurodegenerative, and cancer. Studies have shown the location and proximity of the biofilms within the gastrointestinal tract might impact disease outcome. Gram-negative enteric bacteria secrete the amyloid curli, which makes up as much as 85% of the extracellular matrix of enteric biofilms. Curli mediates cell-cell attachment and attachment to various surfaces including extracellular matrix components such as fibronectin and laminin. Structurally, curli is strikingly similar to pathological and immunomodulatory human amyloids such as amyloid-β, which has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease, α-synuclein, which is involved in Parkinson's disease, and serum amyloid A, which is secreted during the acute phase of inflammation. The immune system recognizes both bacterial amyloid curli and human amyloids utilizing the same receptors, so curli also induces inflammation. Moreover, recent work indicates that curli can participate in the self-assembly process of pathological human amyloids. Curli is found within biofilms of commensal enteric bacteria as well as invasive pathogens; therefore, evidence suggests that curli contributes to complex human diseases. In this review, we summarize the recent findings on how bacterial biofilms containing curli participate in the pathological and immunological processes in gastrointestinal diseases, systemic autoimmune diseases, and neurodegenerative diseases.


30611275|t|The Australian Research Council Longevity Intervention (ARCLI) study protocol (ANZCTR12611000487910) addendum: neuroimaging and gut microbiota protocol.
30611275|w|Tamara Simpson; Saurenne Deleuil; Nicole Echeverria; Mrudhula Komanduri; Helen Macpherson; Chao Suo; Shakuntla Gondalia; Masoumeh Tangestani Fard; Andrew Pipingas; Andrew Scholey; Con Stough
30611275|j|Nutrition journal
30611275|y|2019
30611275|a|The Australian Research Council Longevity Intervention (ARCLI) was designed to investigate the effects of two active supplements, Pycnogenol and Bacopa monnieri (CDRI08) on cognitive performance in a cohort of elderly participants. An additional antioxidant supplement has been included into the trial. A neuroimaging component has also been added to the ARCLI study to investigate the neurochemical biomarkers of oxidative stress in vivo, as well as structural and functional changes associated with ageing and oxidative stress. Faecal biomarkers of gut microflora will also be analysed to investigate if gut microbiota are associated with domains of cognition (e.g., attention, processing speed, memory), mood or other ARCLI outcome variables. The aim of this paper is to update the published methods of the ARCLI clinical trial before it is completed, and data analysis commences. ARCLI is a randomised, placebo controlled, double-blind, now 4-arm clinical trial including neuroimaging and gut microflora sub-studies. Along with the demographic, haematological, mood, cardiovascular and cognitive assessments described in the initial protocol, 80 eligible participants from the overall study pool of ~ 400 will be recruited into the neuroimaging study and undergo scans at baseline, 3 months and 12 months. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy, resting state functional connectivity and arterial spin labelled perfusion sequences are neuroimaging techniques included for each MRI visit in the study. Similarly, approximately 300 participants from the main study pool will be recruited to provide faecal samples at baseline, 3 months and 12 months so that the gut microbiome can be studied. ARCLI is 12-month intervention study, currently underway with a group of older adults, investigating a range of outcomes and their association with ageing. The additional measurements in the ARCLI trial will further the understanding of the underlying mechanisms associated with healthy ageing and may provide insights into novel preventative therapeutic strategies for maintaining cognitive and brain health into old age. Australia and New Zealand Clinical Trials Register (ANZCTR): ACTRN12611000487970 .


37836654|t|Protective Application of Chinese Herbal Compounds and Formulae in Intestinal Inflammation in Humans and Animals.
37836654|w|Yang Yang; Gang Xiao; Pi Cheng; Jianguo Zeng; Yisong Liu
37836654|j|Molecules (Basel, Switzerland)
37836654|y|2023
37836654|a|Intestinal inflammation is a chronic gastrointestinal disorder with uncertain pathophysiology and causation that has significantly impacted both the physical and mental health of both people and animals. An increasing body of research has demonstrated the critical role of cellular signaling pathways in initiating and managing intestinal inflammation. This review focuses on the interactions of three cellular signaling pathways (TLR4/NF-κB, PI3K-AKT, MAPKs) with immunity and gut microbiota to explain the possible pathogenesis of intestinal inflammation. Traditional medicinal drugs frequently have drawbacks and negative side effects. This paper also summarizes the pharmacological mechanism and application of Chinese herbal compounds (Berberine, Sanguinarine, Astragalus polysaccharide, Curcumin, and Cannabinoids) and formulae (Wumei Wan, Gegen-Qinlian decoction, Banxia xiexin decoction) against intestinal inflammation. We show that the herbal compounds and formulae may influence the interactions among cell signaling pathways, immune function, and gut microbiota in humans and animals, exerting their immunomodulatory capacity and anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial effects. This demonstrates their strong potential to improve gut inflammation. We aim to promote herbal medicine and apply it to multispecies animals to achieve better health.


26092111|t|Peripheral aetiopathogenic drivers and mediators of Parkinson's disease and co-morbidities: role of gastrointestinal microbiota.
26092111|w|Sylvia M Dobbs; R John Dobbs; Clive Weller; André Charlett; Aisha Augustin; David Taylor; Mohammad A A Ibrahim; Ingvar Bjarnason
26092111|j|Journal of neurovirology
26092111|y|2016
26092111|a|We seek an aetiopathogenic model for the spectrum of Parkinson's disease (PD), functional bowel disease, depression and cognitive impairment. The adopted concept is that systemic immuno-inflammatory processes mediate neuro-inflammation. The model would be based on phenotype, exposome (including gastrointestinal microbiome), milieu (immuno-inflammatory and metabolome), human genetics and their interactions. It would enable a patient's position, to be understood in terms of drivers, perpetuators and mediators, and a future position, with and without intervention, predicted. Even the cardinal facets of PD may have different drivers: halting one may allow escape down subordinate pathways. Peptic ulceration is prodromal to PD. In our randomised placebo-controlled trial, hypokinesia improved over the year following biopsy-proven Helicobacter pylori eradication and rigidity worsened. This was independent of any (stable, long t½) antiparkinsonian medication. There are pointers to an autoimmune process: for example, surveillance-confirmed hypokinesia effect was indication specific. During surveillance, successive antimicrobial courses, other than for Helicobacter, were associated with cumulative increase in rigidity. Exhibiting laxatives appeared to stem the overall temporal increase, despite antiparkinsonian medication, in rigidity. Thus, intestinal dysbiosis may be a major source of bystander neuronal damage. There are biological gradients of objective measures of PD facets on circulating inflammatory markers and leucocyte subset counts. Moreover, lactulose hydrogen breath test positivity for small-intestinal bacterial overgrowth (present in two thirds of PD patients) is associated with the same subsets: higher natural killer and total CD4+ counts and lower neutrophils. With greater aetiopathogenic understanding, relatively low cost and on-the-shelf medication could have a major impact. A new generation of animal models, based on the gut microbiome, is envisaged.


34171417|t|The neuromicrobiology of Parkinson's disease: A unifying theory.
34171417|w|Mario F Munoz-Pinto; Nuno Empadinhas; Sandra M Cardoso
34171417|j|Ageing research reviews
34171417|y|2021
34171417|a|Recent evidence confirms that PD is indeed a multifactorial disease with different aetiologies and prodromal symptomatology that likely depend on the initial trigger. New players with important roles as triggers, facilitators and aggravators of the PD neurodegenerative process have re-emerged in the last few years, the microbes. Having evolved in association with humans for ages, microbes and their products are now seen as fundamental regulators of human physiology with disturbances in their balance being increasingly accepted to have a relevant impact on the progression of disease in general and on PD in particular. In this review, we comprehensively address early studies that have directly or indirectly linked bacteria or other infectious agents to the onset and progression of PD, from the earliest suspects to the most recent culprits, the gut microbiota. The quest for effective treatments to arrest PD progression must inevitably address the different interactions between microbiota and human cells, and naturally consider the gut-brain axis. The comprehensive characterization of such mechanisms will help design innovative bacteriotherapeutic approaches to selectively shape the gut microbiota profile ultimately to halt PD progression. The present review describes our current understanding of the role of microorganisms and their endosymbiotic relatives, the mitochondria, in inducing, facilitating, or aggravating PD pathogenesis.


33918462|t|Gut Microbiota and Bipolar Disorder: An Overview on a Novel Biomarker for Diagnosis and Treatment.
33918462|w|Lorenza Lucidi; Mauro Pettorruso; Federica Vellante; Francesco Di Carlo; Franca Ceci; Maria Chiara Santovito; Ilenia Di Muzio; Michele Fornaro; Antonio Ventriglio; Carmine Tomasetti; Alessandro Valchera; Alessandro Gentile; Yong-Ku Kim; Giovanni Martinotti; Silvia Fraticelli; Massimo Di Giannantonio; Domenico De Berardis
33918462|j|International journal of molecular sciences
33918462|y|2021
33918462|a|The gut microbiota is the set of microorganisms that colonize the gastrointestinal tract of living creatures, establishing a bidirectional symbiotic relationship that is essential for maintaining homeostasis, for their growth and digestive processes. Growing evidence supports its involvement in the intercommunication system between the gut and the brain, so that it is called the gut-brain-microbiota axis. It is involved in the regulation of the functions of the Central Nervous System (CNS), behavior, mood and anxiety and, therefore, its implication in the pathogenesis of neuropsychiatric disorders. In this paper, we focused on the possible correlations between the gut microbiota and Bipolar Disorder (BD), in order to determine its role in the pathogenesis and in the clinical management of BD. Current literature supports a possible relationship between the compositional alterations of the intestinal microbiota and BD. Moreover, due to its impact on psychopharmacological treatment absorption, by acting on the composition of the microbiota beneficial effects can be obtained on BD symptoms. Finally, we discussed the potential of correcting gut microbiota alteration as a novel augmentation strategy in BD. Future studies are necessary to better clarify the relevance of gut microbiota alterations as state and disease biomarkers of BD.


38390241|t|Gut microbiota-derived short-chain fatty acids and depression: deep insight into biological mechanisms and potential applications.
38390241|w|Junzhe Cheng; Hongkun Hu; Yumeng Ju; Jin Liu; Mi Wang; Bangshan Liu; Yan Zhang
38390241|j|General psychiatry
38390241|y|2024
38390241|a|The gut microbiota is a complex and dynamic ecosystem known as the 'second brain'. Composing the microbiota-gut-brain axis, the gut microbiota and its metabolites regulate the central nervous system through neural, endocrine and immune pathways to ensure the normal functioning of the organism, tuning individuals' health and disease status. Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), the main bioactive metabolites of the gut microbiota, are involved in several neuropsychiatric disorders, including depression. SCFAs have essential effects on each component of the microbiota-gut-brain axis in depression. In the present review, the roles of major SCFAs (acetate, propionate and butyrate) in the pathophysiology of depression are summarised with respect to chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, neuroinflammation, host epigenome and neuroendocrine alterations. Concluding remarks on the biological mechanisms related to gut microbiota will hopefully address the clinical value of microbiota-related treatments for depression.


32534583|t|Study protocol of the DUtch PARkinson Cohort (DUPARC): a prospective, observational study of de novo Parkinson's disease patients for the identification and validation of biomarkers for Parkinson's disease subtypes, progression and pathophysiology.
32534583|w|Jeffrey M Boertien; Sygrid van der Zee; Asterios Chrysou; Marleen J J Gerritsen; Nomdo M Jansonius; Jacoba M Spikman; Teus van Laar
32534583|j|BMC neurology
32534583|y|2020
32534583|a|Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a heterogeneous, progressive neurodegenerative disorder which is characterized by a variety of motor and non-motor symptoms. To date, no disease modifying treatment for PD exists. Here, the study protocol of the Dutch Parkinson Cohort (DUPARC) is described. DUPARC is a longitudinal cohort study aimed at deeply phenotyping de novo PD patients who are treatment-naïve at baseline, to discover and validate biomarkers for PD progression, subtypes and pathophysiology. DUPARC is a prospective cohort study in which 150 de novo PD subjects will be recruited through a collaborative network of PD treating neurologists in the northern part of the Netherlands (Parkinson Platform Northern Netherlands, PPNN). Participants will receive follow-up assessments after 1 year and 3 years, with the intention of an extended follow-up with 3 year intervals. Subjects are extensively characterized to primarily assess objectives within three major domains of PD: cognition, gastrointestinal function and vision. This includes brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); brain cholinergic PET-imaging with fluoroethoxybenzovesamicol (FEOBV-PET); brain dopaminergic PET-imaging with fluorodopa (FDOPA-PET); detailed neuropsychological assessments, covering all cognitive domains; gut microbiome composition; intestinal wall permeability; optical coherence tomography (OCT); genotyping; motor and non-motor symptoms; overall clinical status and lifestyle factors, including a dietary assessment; storage of blood and feces for additional analyses of inflammation and metabolic parameters. Since the start of the inclusion, at the end of 2017, over 100 PD subjects with a confirmed dopaminergic deficit on FDOPA-PET have been included. DUPARC is the first study to combine data within, but not limited to, the non-motor domains of cognition, gastrointestinal function and vision in PD subjects over time. As a de novo PD cohort, with treatment naïve subjects at baseline, DUPARC provides a unique opportunity for biomarker discovery and validation without the possible confounding influences of dopaminergic medication. NCT04180865; registered retrospectively, November 28th 2019.


36871911|t|The effect of exercise on suicidal ideation and behaviors: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
36871911|w|Nicholas Fabiano; Arnav Gupta; Jess G Fiedorowicz; Joseph Firth; Brendon Stubbs; Davy Vancampfort; Felipe B Schuch; Lucas J Carr; Marco Solmi
36871911|j|Journal of affective disorders
36871911|y|2023
36871911|a|Although exercise may positively impact those with mental or other medical illnesses, there is a lack of understanding on how it influences suicidal ideation or risk. We conducted a PRISMA 2020-compliant systematic review searching MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane, and PsycINFO from inception to June 21, 2022. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) investigating exercise and suicidal ideation in subjects with mental or physical conditions were included. Random-effects meta-analysis was conducted. The primary outcome was suicidal ideation. We assessed bias of studies with risk of bias 2 tool. We identified 17 RCTs encompassing 1021 participants. Depression was the most included condition (71 %, k = 12). Mean follow up was 10.0 weeks (SD = 5.2). Post-intervention suicidal ideation (SMD = -1.09, CI -3.08-0.90, p = 0.20, k = 5) was not significantly different between exercise and control groups. Suicide attempts were significantly reduced in participants randomized to exercise interventions as compared to inactive controls (OR = 0.23, CI 0.09-0.67, p = 0.04, k = 2). Fourteen studies (82 %) were at high risk of bias. This meta-analysis is limited by few, underpowered and heterogenous studies. Overall, our meta-analysis did not find a significant decrease in suicidal ideation or mortality between exercise and control groups. However, exercise did significantly decrease suicide attempts. Results should be considered preliminary, and more and larger studies assessing suicidality in RCTs testing exercise are needed.


37927277|t|Pesticides and the Microbiome-Gut-Brain Axis: Convergent Pathways in the Pathogenesis of Parkinson's Disease.
37927277|w|Kristina Kulcsarova; Corinna Bang; Daniela Berg; Eva Schaeffer
37927277|j|Journal of Parkinson's disease
37927277|y|2023
37927277|a|The increasing global burden of Parkinson's disease (PD), termed the PD pandemic, is exceeding expectations related purely to population aging and is likely driven in part by lifestyle changes and environmental factors. Pesticides are well recognized risk factors for PD, supported by both epidemiological and experimental evidence, with multiple detrimental effects beyond dopaminergic neuron damage alone. The microbiome-gut-brain axis has gained much attention in recent years and is considered to be a significant contributor and driver of PD pathogenesis. In this narrative review, we first focus on how both pesticides and the microbiome may influence PD initiation and progression independently, describing pesticide-related central and peripheral neurotoxicity and microbiome-related local and systemic effects due to dysbiosis and microbial metabolites. We then depict the bidirectional interplay between pesticides and the microbiome in the context of PD, synthesizing current knowledge about pesticide-induced dysbiosis, microbiome-mediated alterations in pesticide availability, metabolism and toxicity, and complex systemic pesticide-microbiome-host interactions related to inflammatory and metabolic pathways, insulin resistance and other mechanisms. An overview of the unknowns follows, and the role of pesticide-microbiome interactions in the proposed body-/brain-first phenotypes of PD, the complexity of environmental exposures and gene-environment interactions is discussed. The final part deals with possible further steps for translation, consisting of recommendations on future pesticide use and research as well as an outline of promising preventive/therapeutic approaches targeted on strengthening or restoring a healthy gut microbiome, closing with a summary of current gaps and future perspectives in the field.


35055364|t|Microbiome Changes in Humans with Parkinson's Disease after Photobiomodulation Therapy: A Retrospective Study.
35055364|w|Brian Bicknell; Ann Liebert; Craig S McLachlan; Hosen Kiat
35055364|j|Journal of personalized medicine
35055364|y|2022
35055364|a|There is a paucity of information on the effect of photobiomodulation therapy on gut microbiome composition. Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurological disorder with few management options, although the gut microbiome has been suggested as a potential avenue of treatment. We retrospectively analysed the microbiome from human stool samples from a previously published study, which had demonstrated the efficacy of photobiomodulation to treat Parkinson's patients' symptoms. Specifically, we have observed changes in the microbiome of Parkinson's patients after a 12-week treatment regimen with photobiomodulation to the abdomen, neck, head and nose. Noted were positive changes in the Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes (F:B) ratio, which is often interpreted as a proxy for gut health.


31683191|t|Delivery to the gut microbiota: A rapidly proliferating research field.
31683191|w|Adi Seifert; Yechezkel Kashi; Yoav D Livney
31683191|j|Advances in colloid and interface science
31683191|y|2019
31683191|a|The post genomic era has brought breakthroughs in our understanding of the complex and fascinating symbiosis we have with our co-evolving microbiota, and its dramatic impact on our physiology, physical and mental health, mood, interpersonal communication, and more. This fast "proliferating" knowledge, particularly related to the gut microbiota, is leading to the development of numerous technologies aimed to promote our health via prudent modulation of our gut microbiota. This review embarks on a journey through the gastrointestinal tract from a biomaterial science and engineering perspective, and focusses on the various state-of-the-art approaches proposed in research institutes and those already used in various industries and clinics, for delivery to the gut microbiota, with emphasis on the latest developments published within the last 5 years. Current and possible future trends are discussed. It seems that future development will progress toward more personalized solutions, combining high throughput diagnostic omic methods, and precision interventions.


38317780|t|Gut microbiota regulate stress resistance by influencing microglia-neuron interactions in the hippocampus.
38317780|w|Haili He; Hui He; Li Mo; Qingsong Yuan; Chenghong Xiao; Qiman Ma; Saini Yi; Tao Zhou; Zili You; Jinqiang Zhang
38317780|j|Brain, behavior, & immunity - health
38317780|y|2024
38317780|a|Communication among the brain, gut and microbiota in the gut is known to affect the susceptibility to stress, but the mechanisms involved are unclear. Here we demonstrated that stress resistance in mice was associated with more abundant <i>Lactobacillus</i> and <i>Akkermansia</i> in the gut, but less abundant <i>Bacteroides, Alloprevotella, Helicobacter, Lachnoclostridium, Blautia, Roseburia, Colidextibacter</i> and <i>Lachnospiraceae NK4A136</i>. Stress-sensitive animals showed higher permeability and stronger immune responses in their colon, as well as higher levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in serum. Their hippocampus also showed more extensive microglial activation, abnormal interactions between microglia and neurons, and lower synaptic plasticity. Transplanting fecal microbiota from stress-sensitive mice into naïve ones perturbed microglia-neuron interactions and impaired synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus, translating to more depression-like behavior after stress exposure. Conversely, transplanting fecal microbiota from stress-resistant mice into naïve ones protected microglia from activation and preserved synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus, leading to less depression-like behavior after stress exposure. These results suggested that gut microbiota may influence resilience to chronic psychological stress by regulating microglia-neuron interactions in the hippocampus.


37218177|t|Impact of probiotic on anxiety and depression symptoms in pregnant and lactating women and microbiota of infants: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
37218177|w|Kurvatteppa Halemani; Asha P Shetty; Latha Thimmappa; Alwin Issac; Sanjay Dhiraaj; K Radha; Prabhaker Mishra; Edlin Glane Mathias
37218177|j|Journal of global health
37218177|y|2023
37218177|a|Probiotics are non-invasive therapies composed of live bacteria and yeast. Administration of prebiotics improved the health status of pregnant and lactating women, as well as newborns. This review aimed to appraise the evidence concerning the effectiveness of probiotics on the mental health of pregnant women, lactating mother and the microbiota of the newborn. This systematic review and meta-analysis ascertained quantitative studies published in Medline (PubMed), Clinical Key, EMBASE, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), the Cochrane Library, and Google scholar. Two authors independently screened and extracted the data from the primary studies that analysed the efficacy of probiotics on the mental health of pregnant and lactating women and the microbiota of the newborn. We adopted Cochrane Collaboration guidelines and reported using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic review and Meta-Analysis (PRISMA) statement. The qualities of included trials were assessed by Cochrane collaboration's risk of bias tool (ROB-2). Sixteen trials comprised 946 pregnant women, 524 were lactating mothers, and 1678 were infants. The sample size of primary studies ranged from 36 to 433. Probiotics were administered as interventions, using either a single strain of Bifidobacterium or Lactobacillus or a double-strain combination of Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium. Probiotics supplementation reduced anxiety in pregnant (n = 676, standardised mean difference (SMD) = 0.01; 95% confidence interval (CI) = -0.28,0.30, P = 0.04, I<sup>2</sup> = 70) and lactating women (n = 514, SMD = -0.17; 95% CI = -1.62,1.27, P = 0.98, I<sup>2</sup> = 0). Similarly, probiotics decreased depression in pregnant (n = 298, SMD = 0.05; 95% CI = -0.24,0.35, P = 0.20, I<sup>2</sup> = 40) and lactating women (n = 518, SMD = -0.10; 95% CI = -1.29,-1.05, P = 0.11, I<sup>2</sup> = 60%). Similarly, probiotics supplementation improved the gut microbiota and reduced the duration of crying, abdominal distension, abdominal colic and diarrhoea. Non-invasive probiotic therapies are more useful to pregnant and lactating women and newborns. The review protocol was registered with PROSPERO (CRD42022372126).


36466165|t|Mapping trends and hotspot regarding gastrointestinal microbiome and neuroscience: A bibliometric analysis of global research (2002-2022).
36466165|w|Jingjing Yang; Yihui Deng; Yuzhe Cai; Yixuan Liu; Lanyu Peng; Zheng Luo; Dingxiang Li
36466165|j|Frontiers in neuroscience
36466165|y|2022
36466165|a|Scholars have long understood that gastrointestinal microorganisms are intimately related to human disorders. The literature on research involving the gut microbiome and neuroscience is emerging. This study exposed the connections between gut microbiota and neuroscience methodically and intuitively using bibliometrics and visualization. This study's objectives were to summarize the knowledge structure and identify emerging trends and potential hotspots in this field. On October 18, 2022, a literature search was conducted utilizing the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC) database for studies on gut microbiota and neuroscience studies from 2002 to 2022 (August 20, 2022). VOSviewer and CiteSpace V software was used to conduct the bibliometrics and visualization analysis. From 2002 to 2022 (August 20, 2022), 2,275 publications in the WoSCC database satisfied the criteria. The annual volume of publications has rapidly emerged in recent years (2016-2022). The most productive nation (<i>n</i> = 732, 32.18%) and the hub of inter-country cooperation (links: 38) were the United States. University College Cork had the most research papers published in this area, followed by McMaster University and Harvard Medical School. Cryan JF, Dinan TG, and Clarke G were key researchers with considerable academic influence. The journals with the most publications are "Neurogastroenterology and Motility" and "Brain Behavior and Immunity." The most cited article and co-cited reference was Cryan JF's 2012 article on the impact of gut microbiota on the brain and behavior. The current research hotspot includes gastrointestinal microbiome, inflammation, gut-brain axis, Parkinson's disease (PD), and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The research focus would be on the "gastrointestinal microbiome, inflammation: a link between obesity, insulin resistance, and cognition" and "the role of two important theories of the gut-brain axis and microbial-gut-brain axis in diseases." Burst detection analysis showed that schizophrenia, pathology, and psychiatric disorder may continue to be the research frontiers. Research on "gastrointestinal microbiome, inflammation: a link between obesity, insulin resistance, and cognition" and "the role of two important theories of the gut-brain axis and microbial-gut-brain axis in diseases" will continue to be the hotspot. Schizophrenia and psychiatric disorder will be the key research diseases in the field of gut microbiota and neuroscience, and pathology is the key research content, which is worthy of scholars' attention.


31859119|t|Infections, antibiotic treatment and the Microbiome in relation to schizophrenia.
31859119|w|Amalie W Klein-Petersen; Ole Köhler-Forsberg; Michael E Benros
31859119|j|Schizophrenia research
31859119|y|2021
31859119|a|Schizophrenia is a heterogeneous disorder with several potential pathophysiological mechanisms, including immune activation. Infections have been identified as a significant contributing risk factor for schizophrenia; this association is reviewed together with the potential impact of antibiotic treatment and alterations of the intestinal microbiota. Both infections and the treatment with antibiotics may alter the composition of the gut microbiota, causing dysbiosis, which in animal studies has been associated with alterations of behavior. Of the few studies that have been conducted on humans, some have suggested alterations in the microbial composition of individuals with schizophrenia compared to healthy controls, albeit with conflicting results. Recently, increased attention has emerged regarding potential adverse effects from antibiotics, as a number of these have been associated with an increased risk of psychotic episodes. Particularly, the fluoroquinolones have been associated with neurotoxic adverse events. The association between schizophrenia and infections, antibiotic treatment and dysbiosis, may be an epiphenomenon, which could be explained by other confounding factors. However, these associations could be causal and could therefore be important risk factors in a subgroup of patients. Large-scale well-matched longitudinal studies are needed with measurements of immune markers from multiple biological samples, ranging from material close to the brain, as cerebrospinal fluid and brain-scans targeting neuroinflammation, to analysis of blood and intestinal microbiota. This would help to obtain more definite results on the association between infections, immune components and microbiota alterations in relation to schizophrenia.


33252574|t|Understanding the role of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
33252574|w|Mahin Ghorbani; Heera Rajandas; Sivachandran Parimannan; Gerard Benedict Stephen Joseph; Mei Mei Tew; Siti Salwa Ramly; Muhammad Arif Muhamad Rasat; Su Yin Lee
33252574|j|Psychiatric genetics
33252574|y|2021
33252574|a|Schizophrenia is a chronic mental disorder with marked symptoms of hallucination, delusion, and impaired cognitive behaviors. Although multidimensional factors have been associated with the development of schizophrenia, the principal cause of the disorder remains debatable. Microbiome involvement in the etiology of schizophrenia has been widely researched due to the advancement in sequencing technologies. This review describes the contribution of the gut microbiome in the development of schizophrenia that is facilitated by the gut-brain axis. The gut microbiota is connected to the gut-brain axis via several pathways and mechanisms, that are discussed in this review. The role of the oral microbiota, probiotics and prebiotics in shaping the gut microbiota are also highlighted. Lastly, future perspectives for microbiome research in schizophrenia are addressed.


37391847|t|Alterations of gut microbiota are associated with blood pressure: a cross-sectional clinical trial in Northwestern China.
37391847|w|Jing Lv; Jihan Wang; Yan Yu; Mengyao Zhao; Wenjuan Yang; Junye Liu; Yan Zhao; Yanjie Yang; Guodong Wang; Lei Guo; Heping Zhao
37391847|j|Journal of translational medicine
37391847|y|2023
37391847|a|The human gut microbiota (GM) is involved in the pathogenesis of hypertension (HTN), and could be affected by various factors, including sex and geography. However, available data directly linking GM to HTN based on sex differences are limited. This study investigated the GM characteristics in HTN subjects in Northwestern China, and evaluate the associations of GM with blood pressure levels based on sex differences. A total of 87 HTN subjects and 45 controls were recruited with demographic and clinical characteristics documented. Fecal samples were collected for 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metagenomic sequencing. GM diversity was observed higher in females compared to males, and principal coordinate analysis showed an obvious segregation of females and males. Four predominant phyla of fecal GM included Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria. LEfSe analysis indicated that phylum unidentified_Bacteria was enriched in HTN females, while Leuconostocaceae, Weissella and Weissella_cibaria were enriched in control females (P < 0.05). Functionally, ROC analysis revealed that Cellular Processes (0.796, 95% CI 0.620 ~ 0.916), Human Diseases (0.773, 95% CI 0.595 ~ 0.900), Signal transduction (0.806, 95% CI 0.631 ~ 0.922) and Two-component system (0.806, 95% CI 0.631 ~ 0.922) could differentiate HTN females as effective functional classifiers, which were also positively correlated with systolic blood pressure levels. This work provides evidence of fecal GM characteristics in HTN females and males in a northwestern Chinese population, further supporting the notion that GM dysbiosis may participate in the pathogenesis of HTN, and the role of sex differences should be considered. Trial registration Chinese Clinical Trial Registry, ChiCTR1800019191. Registered 30 October 2018 - Retrospectively registered, http://www.chictr.org.cn/ .


37686747|t|Influence of Food Type on Human Psychological-Behavioral Responses and Crime Reduction.
37686747|w|Masoud Heidari; Yalda Khodadadi Jokar; Shirin Madani; Sharifeh Shahi; Mohammad Sharif Shahi; Mohammad Goli
37686747|j|Nutrients
37686747|y|2023
37686747|a|The purpose of this narrative review is to emphasize the importance of food consumption and meal selection on mental health and brain function, including psychological and behavioral reactions such as mood, loving relationships, violence, and criminal activity. Additionally, by being aware of the link between food and mental health, the community can be encouraged to make informed food choices in order to avoid unfavorable outcomes like criminality. Food behaviors are shifting significantly over the world. There are also significant changes in mood, sadness, happiness, and violence, as well as the spread of the variety and severity of mental diseases that lead to violent acts. Food intake and meal selection have evolved over the last ten years as the variety and accessibility of food options have become easier and more diverse. These modifications might have both beneficial and bad consequences. This article examines the relationship between food intake and its impact on marital satisfaction. The goal of this review is to support or refute the claim that food influences mood, love, or criminal behavior, or vice versa. Various diets can have an impact on one's mental health and brain, influencing psychological reactions and behavioral responses such as mood, loving relationships, violence, and even criminal activity. Food insecurity has been demonstrated in various studies to have a negative impact on health and psychological well-being, leading to despair, loss of happiness, marital conflict, and violence. For example, herbal extracts and flavonoids have the potential to improve gut microbiota and treat mood disorders. Understanding how the gut-brain axis communicates might help guide interventions for mood and cognitive function. Since the root of most diseases and behaviors is significantly related to the type of food consumed, this research addresses this issue in order to reduce the cost of treatment and prevention of crime and delinquency at the community level by consciously choosing the food consumed by the society. In other words, prevention is always better than cure.


34869080|t|Altered Fecal Microbiota Correlated With Systemic Inflammation in Male Subjects With Methamphetamine Use Disorder.
34869080|w|Di Deng; Hang Su; Yuehong Song; Tianzhen Chen; Qianqian Sun; Haifeng Jiang; Min Zhao
34869080|j|Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology
34869080|y|2021
34869080|a|Methamphetamine use disorder (MUD) is a major public health problem worldwide with limited effective treatment options. Previous studies have reported methamphetamine-associated alterations in gut microbiota. A potential role of gut microbiota in regulating methamphetamine-induced brain dysfunction through interactions with the host immune system has been proposed, but evidence for this hypothesis is limited. The present study aimed to investigate the alterations in the fecal microbiota and explore its relationship with systemic inflammation in MUD. Fecal samples were obtained from 26 male subjects with MUD and 17 sex- and age- matched healthy controls. Fecal microbial profiles were analyzed by 16S rRNA sequencing. Plasma inflammatory markers were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Associations between fecal microbiota, systemic inflammatory markers and clinical characteristics were examined by Spearman partial correlation analysis while controlling for possible confounders. Compared with healthy controls, individuals with MUD showed no difference in fecal microbial diversity, but exhibited differences in the relative abundance of several microbial taxa. At the genus level, a higher abundance of <i>Collinsella</i>, <i>Odoribacter</i> and <i>Megasphaera</i> and lower levels of <i>Faecalibacterium</i>, <i>Blautia</i>, <i>Dorea</i> and <i>Streptococcus</i> were detected in subjects with MUD. More importantly, altered fecal microbiota was found to be correlated with plasma levels of CRP, IL-2, IL-6 and IL-10. The order <i>Lactobacillales</i>, exhibiting lower abundance in participants with MUD, was positively related to the duration of methamphetamine abstinence and the plasma level of anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. This study is the first to provide evidence for a link between altered fecal microbiota and systemic inflammation in MUD. Further elucidation of interactions between gut microbiota and the host immune system may be beneficial for the development of novel therapeutic approaches for MUD.


37962812|t|Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis and Antidepressant Treatment.
37962812|w|David Antoine Lachmansingh; Aonghus Lavelle; John F Cryan; Gerard Clarke
37962812|j|Current topics in behavioral neurosciences
37962812|y|2024
37962812|a|In the treatment of depressive disorders, conventional antidepressant therapy has been the mainstay of clinical management, along with well-established nonpharmacological interventions such as various kinds of psychotherapy. Over the last 2 decades, there has been considerable interest in the role of the gastrointestinal system and its microbiota on brain function, behavior, and mental health. Components of what is referred to as the microbiota-gut-brain axis have been uncovered, and further research has elicited functional capabilities such as "gut-brain modules." Some studies have found associations with compositional alterations of gut microbiota in patients with depressive disorders and individuals experiencing symptoms of depression. Regarding the pathogenesis and neurobiology of depression itself, there appears to be a multifactorial contribution, in addition to the theories involving deficits in catecholaminergic and monoamine neurotransmission. Interestingly, there is evidence to suggest that antidepressants may play a role in modulating the gut microbiota, thereby possibly having an impact on the microbiota-gut-brain axis in this manner. The development of prebiotics, probiotics, and synbiotics has led to studies investigating not only their impact on the microbiota but also their therapeutic value in mental health. These psychobiotics have the potential to be used as therapeutic adjuncts in the treatment of depression. Regarding future directions, and in an attempt to further understand the role of the microbiota-gut-brain axis in depression, more studies such as those involving fecal microbiota transplantation will be required. In addition to recent findings, it is also suggested that more research will have to be undertaken to elicit whether specific strains of gut organisms are linked to depression. In terms of further investigation of the therapeutic potential of prebiotics, probiotics, and synbiotics as adjuncts to antidepressant treatment, we also expect there to be more research targeting specific microorganisms, as well as a strong focus on the effects of specific prebiotic fibers from an individualized (personalized) point of view.


38357211|t|Gut microbiota and metabolite variations in a migraine mouse model.
38357211|w|Dan Wang; Xu Liu; Suming Shi; Tongli Ren; Wuqing Wang
38357211|j|Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology
38357211|y|2023
38357211|a|Migraine is a prevalent clinical disorder characterized by recurrent unilateral throbbing headache episodes accompanied by symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, photophobia, and phonophobia. Despite its common occurrence, the diagnosis, pathophysiology, and treatment of migraine remain controversial. Extensive research has implicated the gut microbiota in various central nervous system disorders, including anxiety disorders, depression, and Parkinson's disease. Some studies have also suggested that migraine may stem from disruptions to neurohormones and metabolism. This study aimed to investigate the disparities in gut microbiota and metabolites between migraine mice model and normal mice to shed light on the underlying mechanisms and potential therapeutic approaches. Distinct differences in gut microbial composition were observed between the migraine mouse model and normal mouse, indicating a potential correlation between these variations and the pathogenesis of migraine. This study provides evidence of differences in gut microbiota composition and metabolites between a migraine mouse model and normal mice, which showed that Akkermansiaceae constituted the most abundant taxon in the sham injection mouse group, while Lachnospiraceae constituted the most prevalent group in the migraine mouse model group. The associations between the abundances of <i>Akkermansia muciniphila</i> and Lachnospiraceae bacteria and metabolites suggested their potential roles in the pathogenesis of migraine. The altered abundance of Lachnospiraceae observed in migraine-afflicted mice and its correlations with changes in metabolites suggest that it may affect the host's health. Thus, probiotic therapy emerges as a possible treatment for migraine. Moreover, significant disparities in gut metabolites were observed between the migraine mouse model and normal mice. These alterations encompass multiple metabolic pathways, suggesting that metabolic disturbances may also contribute to the development of migraines.


32032668|t|Maternal Obesity as a Risk Factor for Brain Development and Mental Health in the Offspring.
32032668|w|Francesca Cirulli; Chiara Musillo; Alessandra Berry
32032668|j|Neuroscience
32032668|y|2020
32032668|a|Maternal obesity plays a key role in the health trajectory of the offspring. Although research on this topic has largely focused on the potential of this condition to increase the risk for child obesity, it is becoming more and more evident that it can also significantly impact cognitive function and mental health. The mechanisms underlying these effects are starting to be elucidated and point to the placenta as a critical organ that may mediate changes in the response to stress, immune function and oxidative stress. Long-term effects of maternal obesity may rely upon epigenetic changes in selected genes that are involved in metabolic and trophic regulations of the brain. More recent evidence also indicates the gut microbiota as a potential mediator of these effects. Overall, understanding cause-effect relationships can allow the development of preventive measures that could rely upon dietary changes in the mother and the offspring. Addressing diets appears more feasible than developing new pharmacological targets and has the potential to affect the multiple interconnected physiological pathways engaged by these complex regulations, allowing prevention of both metabolic and mental disorders.


31356838|t|Diet and Alzheimer's dementia - Nutritional approach to modulate inflammation.
31356838|w|Katarzyna Szczechowiak; Breno S Diniz; Jerzy Leszek
31356838|j|Pharmacology, biochemistry, and behavior
31356838|y|2019
31356838|a|Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease causing dementia in the elderly population. Due to the fact that there is still no cure for Alzheimer's dementia and available treatment strategies bring only symptomatic benefits, there is a pressing demand for other effective strategies such as diet. Since the inflammation hypothesis gained considerable significance in the AD pathogenesis, elucidating the modulatory role of dietary factors on inflammation may help to prevent, delay the onset and slow the progression of AD. Current evidence clearly shows that synergistic action of combined supplementation and complex dietary patterns provides stronger benefits than any single component considered separately. Recent studies reveal the growing importance of novel factors such as dietary advanced glycation end products (d-AGE), gut microbiota, butyrate and vitamin D<sub>3</sub> on inflammatory processes in AD. This paper summarizes the available evidence of pro- and anti-inflammatory activity of some dietary components including fatty acids, vitamins, flavonoids, polyphenols, probiotics and d-AGE, and their potential for AD prevention and treatment.


38381349|t|Adjunctive efficacy of Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis XLTG11 for functional constipation in children.
38381349|w|Ke Chen; Zengyuan Zhou; Yang Nie; Yanmei Cao; Ping Yang; Ying Zhang; Ping Xu; Qinghua Yu; Yang Shen; Weiwei Ma; Shanshan Jin; Changqi Liu
38381349|j|Brazilian journal of microbiology : [publication of the Brazilian Society for Microbiology]
38381349|y|2024
38381349|a|Functional constipation (FC) can seriously affect the physical and mental health of children. The goal of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis XLTG11 in treating FC in children through a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled approach. Eligible children were randomized into either the intervention group (IG, n = 65, receiving conventional treatment with probiotics) or the control group (CG, n = 66, receiving conventional treatment without probiotics). The primary outcome measure was fecal frequency. Fecal gut microbiota analysis and PICRUSt (Phylogenetic Investigation of Communities by Reconstruction of Unobserved States) were used to predict gene family abundances based on 16S information. Over the course of treatment, the weekly frequency of feces within each group increased significantly (F = 41.97, p < 0.001). The frequency of feces (times/week (t/w)) in the IG was significantly higher than that in the CG (3.69 ± 2.62 t/w vs.3.18 ± 1.43 t/w, 4.03 ± 2.54 t/w vs. 2.89 ± 1.39 t/w and 3.74 ± 2.36 t/w vs. 2.94 ± 1.18 t/w and 3.45 ± 1.98 vs. 3.17 ± 1.41 t/w for the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th week after intervention, respectively) (F = 7.60, p = 0.0067). After the intervention, dominate species shifted to Bifidobacterium longum, Bifidobacterium breve, and Escherichia coli in the IG. Additionally, genes related to short-chain fatty acid (SCF) metabolism were upregulated, while methane metabolism was downregulated. Administration of XLTG11 at a dose of 1 × 10<sup>10</sup> CFU/day to children increased fecal frequency, induced beneficial changes in gut microbiota, and regulated SCFs and methane metabolism-related genes.


37964605|t|Clock gene <i>Per3</i> deficiency disrupts circadian alterations of gut microbiota in mice.
37964605|w|Xiaoxian Xie; Haoshen Xu; Ruonan Shu; Lei Sun; Mengya Zhang; Qinglian Hu; Kai Zhu; Zezhi Li; Fengchun Wu
37964605|j|Acta biochimica et biophysica Sinica
37964605|y|2023
37964605|a|No abstract available


38660662|t|Causal roles of gut microbiota in cholangiocarcinoma etiology suggested by genetic study.
38660662|w|Zhi-Tao Chen; Chen-Chen Ding; Kai-Lei Chen; Yang-Jun Gu; Chi-Cheng Lu; Qi-Yong Li
38660662|j|World journal of gastrointestinal oncology
38660662|y|2024
38660662|a|Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a highly malignant biliary tract cancer with poor prognosis. Previous studies have implicated the gut microbiota in CCA, but evidence for causal mechanisms is lacking. To investigate the causal relationship between gut microbiota and CCA risk. We performed a two-sample mendelian randomization study to evaluate potential causal associations between gut microbiota and CCA risk using genome-wide association study summary statistics for 196 gut microbial taxa and CCA. Genetic variants were used as instrumental variables. Multiple sensitivity analyses assessed result robustness. Fifteen gut microbial taxa showed significant causal associations with CCA risk. Higher genetically predicted abundance of <i>genus Eubacteriumnodatum group</i>, <i>genus Ruminococcustorques group</i>, <i>genus Coprococcus</i>, <i>genus Dorea</i>, and <i>phylum Actinobacteria</i> were associated with reduced risk of gallbladder cancer and extrahepatic CCA. Increased intrahepatic CCA risk was associated with higher abundance of <i>family Veillonellaceae</i>, <i>genus Alistipes</i>, <i>order Enterobacteriales</i>, and <i>phylum Firmicutes.</i> Protective effects against CCA were suggested for <i>genus Collinsella</i>, <i>genus Eisenbergiella</i>, <i>genus Anaerostipes</i>, <i>genus Paraprevotella</i>, <i>genus Parasutterella</i>, and <i>phylum Verrucomicrobia.</i> Sensitivity analyses indicated these findings were reliable without pleiotropy. This pioneering study provides novel evidence that specific gut microbiota may play causal roles in CCA risk. Further experimental validation of these candidate microbes is warranted to consolidate causality and mechanisms.


38226944|t|Gut microbiota composition may be an indicator of erectile dysfunction.
38226944|w|Yu Qiao; Jianhuai Chen; Yongsheng Jiang; Ziheng Zhang; Heng Wang; Tao Liu; Zhaoxu Yang; Guangbo Fu; Yun Chen
38226944|j|Microbial biotechnology
38226944|y|2024
38226944|a|Erectile Dysfunction (ED) is considered a physical and mental illness. A variety of potential associations between gut microbiota and health or disease have been found. By comparing the gut microbiota of healthy controls and ED patients, our study investigated the relationship between ED and gut microbiota. The results revealed that the ED group exhibited a significantly higher relative abundance of Bacteroides, Fusobacterium, Lachnoclostridium, Escherichia-Shigella and Megamonas, while showing a significantly lower relative abundance of Bifidobacterium compared to the control group. The dysbiosis of gut microbiota played a role in the onset and progression of ED by influencing the gut barrier, cardiovascular system and mental health, which provided a novel perspective on understanding the pathophysiology of ED. What is more, we had identified several key gut microbiota. By combining 16S rRNA sequencing with machine learning techniques, we were able to uncover the significant value and impact of gut microbiota in the early detection of ED.


38106100|t|Hypothesizing mechanistic links between microbes and disease using knowledge graphs.
38106100|w|Brook Santangelo; Michael Bada; Lawrence Hunter; Catherine Lozupone
38106100|j|bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology
38106100|y|2023
38106100|a|Knowledge graphs have found broad biomedical applications, providing useful representations of complex knowledge. Although plentiful evidence exists linking the gut microbiome to disease, mechanistic understanding of those relationships remains generally elusive. Here we demonstrate the potential of knowledge graphs to hypothesize plausible mechanistic accounts of host-microbe interactions in disease. To do so, we constructed a knowledge graph of linked microbes, genes and metabolites called MGMLink. Using a semantically constrained shortest path search through the graph and a novel path prioritization methodology based on cosine similarity, we show that this knowledge supports inference of mechanistic hypotheses that explain observed relationships between microbes and disease phenotypes. We discuss specific applications of this methodology in inflammatory bowel disease and Parkinson's disease. This approach enables mechanistic hypotheses surrounding the complex interactions between gut microbes and disease to be generated in a scalable and comprehensive manner.


38020771|t|Effects of the multidomain intervention with nutritional supplements on cognition and gut microbiome in early symptomatic Alzheimer's disease: a randomized controlled trial.
38020771|w|Eun Hye Lee; Geon Ha Kim; Hee Kyung Park; Hae Jin Kang; Yoo Kyoung Park; Hye Ah Lee; Chang Hyung Hong; So Young Moon; Woorim Kang; Hyun-Seok Oh; Hai-Jeon Yoon; Seong Hye Choi; Jee Hyang Jeong
38020771|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
38020771|y|2023
38020771|a|The SoUth Korean study to PrEvent cognitive impaiRment and protect BRAIN health through lifestyle intervention in at-risk elderly people (SUPERBRAIN) is a part of the World-Wide Finnish Geriatric Intervention Study to Prevent Cognitive Impairment and Disability (WW-FINGERS) network. This study aimed to demonstrate the effects of the SUPERBRAIN-based multidomain intervention with nutritional supplements in amyloid positive emission tomography (PET) proven early symptomatic Alzheimer's disease patients. Forty-six participants who were diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment or mild dementia and were positive in the amyloid PET study randomized into three groups: group A, the multidomain intervention with nutritional supplements; group B, nutritional supplements only; and a control group. The primary outcome was a change in the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS) total scale index score after an 8-week intervention. Secondary outcomes, including gut microbiome data, were also analyzed. The RBANS total scale index score improved significantly in group A compared with group B (<i>p</i> < 0.032) and compared with the control group (<i>p</i> < 0.001). After intervention, beta diversity of the gut microbiome between group A and the control group increased, and patients in group A were more enriched with <i>Bifidobacterium</i>. SUPERBRAIN-based multidomain intervention with nutritional supplements improves cognition and gut microbiota in patients with early symptomatic Alzheimer's disease who were amyloid-positive by PET.


33488420|t|Bibliometric and Visual Analysis of Research on the Links Between the Gut Microbiota and Depression From 1999 to 2019.
33488420|w|Xiuqing Zhu; Jinqing Hu; Shuhua Deng; Yaqian Tan; Chang Qiu; Ming Zhang; Xiaojia Ni; Haoyang Lu; Zhanzhang Wang; Lu Li; Hongzhen Chen; Shanqing Huang; Tao Xiao; Dewei Shang; Yuguan Wen
33488420|j|Frontiers in psychiatry
33488420|y|2020
33488420|a|<b>Background:</b> There is a crucial link between the gut microbiota and the host central nervous system, and the communication between them occurs <i>via</i> a bidirectional pathway termed the "microbiota-gut-brain axis." The gut microbiome in the modern environment has markedly changed in response to environmental factors. These changes may affect a broad range of host psychiatric disorders, such as depression, by interacting with the host through metabolic, immune, neural, and endocrine pathways. Nevertheless, the general aspects of the links between the gut microbiota and depression have not been systematically investigated through bibliometric analysis. <b>Aim:</b> This study aimed to analyze the current status and developing trends in gut microbiota research in the depression field through bibliometric and visual analysis. <b>Methods:</b> A total of 1,962 publications published between 1999 and 2019 were retrieved from the Web of Science Core Collection. CiteSpace (5.6 R5) was used to perform collaboration network analysis, co-citation analysis, co-occurrence analysis, and citation burst detection. <b>Results:</b> The number of publications has been rapidly growing since 2010. The collaboration network analysis revealed that the USA, University College Cork, and John F. Cryan were the most influential country, institute, and scholar, respectively. The most productive and co-cited journals were <i>Brain Behavior and Immunity</i> and <i>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America</i>, respectively. The co-citation analysis of references revealed that the most recent research focus was in the largest theme cluster, "cytokines," thus reflecting the important research foundation in this field. The co-occurrence analysis of keywords revealed that "fecal microbiota" and "microbiome" have become the top two research hotspots since 2013. The citation burst detection for keywords identified several keywords, including "Parkinson's disease," "microbiota-gut-brain axis," "microbiome," "dysbiosis," "bipolar disorder," "impact," "C reactive protein," and "immune system," as new research frontiers, which have currently ongoing bursts. <b>Conclusions:</b> These results provide an instructive perspective on the current research and future directions in the study of the links between the gut microbiota and depression, which may help researchers choose suitable cooperators or journals, and promote their research illustrating the underlying molecular mechanisms of depression, including its etiology, prevention, and treatment.


37340511|t|Parkinson's disease: Are gut microbes involved?
37340511|w|Abass Olawale Omotosho; Yusuf Amuda Tajudeen; Habeebullah Jayeola Oladipo; Sodiq Inaolaji Yusuff; Muritala AbdulKadir; Abdulbasit Opeyemi Muili; Oluwaseyi Muyiwa Egbewande; Rashidat Onyinoyi Yusuf; Zaccheaus Oluwaseun Faniran; Abdullateef Opeyemi Afolabi; Mona Said El-Sherbini
37340511|j|Brain and behavior
37340511|y|2023
37340511|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that affects more than 10 million individuals worldwide. It is characterized by motor and sensory deficits. Research studies have increasingly demonstrated a correlation between Parkinson's disease and alternations in the composition of the gut microbiota in affected patients. Also, the significant role of prebiotics and probiotics in gastrointestinal and neurological conditions is imperative to understand their relation to Parkinson's disease. To explore the scientific interaction of the gut-microbiota-brain axis and its association with Parkinson's disease, a comprehensive narrative review of the relevant literature was conducted. Articles were retrieved systematically from reputable sources, including PubMed, Science Direct, World Health Organization (WHO), and Advanced Google Scholar. Key search terms included are "Parkinson's Disease", "Gut Microbiome", "Braak's Theory", "Neurological Disorders", and "Gut-brain axis". Articles included in our review are published in English and they provide detailed information on the relationship between Parkinson's disease and gut microbiota RESULTS: This review highlights the impact of gut microbiota composition and associated factors on the progression of Parkinson's disease. Evidence-based studies highlighting the existing evidence of the relationship between Parkinson's disease and alteration in gut microbiota are discussed. Consequently, the potential mechanisms by which the gut microbiota may affect the composition of the gut microbiota were revealed, with a particular emphasis on the role of the gut-brain axis in this interplay. Understanding the complex interplay between gut microbiota and Parkinson's disease is a potential implication for the development of novel therapeutics against Parkinson's disease. Following the existing relationship demonstrated by different evidence-based studies on Parkinson's disease and gut microbiota, our review concludes by providing recommendations and suggestions for future research studies with a particular emphasis on the impact of the microbiota-brain axis on Parkinson's disease.


30499231|t|Effect of probiotic interventions on depressive symptoms: A narrative review evaluating systematic reviews.
30499231|w|Ibrahim Nadeem; Mohammed Z Rahman; Yasser Ad-Dab'bagh; Mahmood Akhtar
30499231|j|Psychiatry and clinical neurosciences
30499231|y|2019
30499231|a|Depression is one of the most prevalent mental illnesses and is often associated with various other medical disorders. Since the 1980s, the primary pharmacological treatment has been antidepressants, but due to the recent discovery of the association between the gut microbiome and mental health, probiotics have been proposed as an adjunctive or alternate treatment. In this narrative review, we aim to provide a holistic perspective by synthesizing and evaluating existing evidence, discussing key biological mechanisms, exploring the history of probiotic use, and appreciating the influence of modern diet on mental health. Five online databases were searched for relevant studies up to December 2017. Systematic reviews that included randomized controlled trials assessing the efficacy of probiotics in the treatment of depressive symptoms were included. Seven systematic reviews met the inclusion criteria. Three of these reviews conducted meta-analyses, out of which, two concluded that probiotics improved depressive symptoms in the sample population. Out of the four reviews that conducted qualitative analysis, three reviews concluded that probiotics have the potential to be used as a treatment. Due to the differences in clinical trials, a definitive effect of probiotics on depressive symptoms cannot be concluded. Nonetheless, probiotics seem to potentially produce a significant therapeutic effect for subjects with pre-existing depressive symptoms. Further studies are warranted for definitive conclusions.


32062351|t|Gut microbiota composition during infancy and subsequent behavioural outcomes.
32062351|w|Amy Loughman; Anne-Louise Ponsonby; Martin O'Hely; Christos Symeonides; Fiona Collier; Mimi L K Tang; John Carlin; Sarath Ranganathan; Katrina Allen; Angela Pezic; Richard Saffery; Felice Jacka; Leonard C Harrison; Peter D Sly; Peter Vuillermin
32062351|j|EBioMedicine
32062351|y|2020
32062351|a|Despite intense interest in the relationship between gut microbiota and brain development, longitudinal data from human studies are lacking. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between the composition of gut microbiota during infancy and subsequent behavioural outcomes. A subcohort of 201 children with behavioural outcome measures was identified within a longitudinal, Australian birth-cohort study. The faecal microbiota were analysed at 1, 6, and 12 months of age. Behavioural outcomes were measured at 2 years of age. In an unselected birth cohort, we found a clear association between decreased normalised abundance of Prevotella in faecal samples collected at 12 months of age and increased behavioural problems at 2 years, in particular Internalizing Problem scores. This association appeared independent of multiple potentially confounding variables, including maternal mental health. Recent exposure to antibiotics was the best predictor of decreased Prevotella. Our findings demonstrate a strong association between the composition of the gut microbiota in infancy and subsequent behavioural outcomes; and support the importance of responsible use of antibiotics during early life. This study was funded by the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia (1082307, 1147980, 1129813), The Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Barwon Health, Deakin University, Perpetual Trustees, and The Shepherd Foundation. The funders had no involvement in the data collection, analysis or interpretation, trial design, recruitment or any other aspect pertinent to the study.


30894059|t|Characterization of gut microbiota composition and functions in patients with chronic alcohol overconsumption.
30894059|w|Steinar Traae Bjørkhaug; Håvard Aanes; Sudan Prasad Neupane; Jørgen G Bramness; Stine Malvik; Christine Henriksen; Viggo Skar; Asle W Medhus; Jørgen Valeur
30894059|j|Gut microbes
30894059|y|2019
30894059|a|Excessive alcohol intake can alter the gut microbiota, which may underlie the pathophysiology of alcohol-related diseases. We examined gut microbiota composition and functions in patients with alcohol overconsumption for >10 years, compared to a control group of patients with a history of no or low alcohol intake. Faecal microbiota composition was assessed by 16S rRNA sequencing. Gut microbiota functions were evaluated by quantification of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and predictive metagenome profiling (PICRUSt). Twenty-four patients, mean age 64.8 years (19 males), with alcohol overconsumption, and 18 control patients, mean age 58.2 years (14 males) were included. The two groups were comparable regarding basic clinical variables. Nutritional assessment revealed lower total score on the screening tool Mini Nutritional Assessment, lower muscle mass as assessed by handgrip strength, and lower plasma vitamin C levels in the alcohol overconsumption group. Bacteria from phylum <i>Proteobacteria</i> were found in higher relative abundance, while bacteria from genus <i>Faecalibacterium</i> were found in lower relative abundance in the group of alcohol overconsumers. The group also had higher levels of the genera <i>Sutterella, Holdemania</i> and <i>Clostridium</i>, and lower concentration and percentage of butyric acid. When applying PICRUSt to predict the metagenomic composition, we found that genes related to invasion of epithelial cells were more common in the group of alcohol overconsumers. We conclude that gut microbiota composition and functions in patients with alcohol overconsumption differ from patients with low consumption of alcohol, and seem to be skewed into a putative pro-inflammatory direction.


37049619|t|Characteristics of the Gut Microbiome and Serum Metabolome in Patients with Functional Constipation.
37049619|w|Jialiang Wang; Linlin Wang; Qiangqing Yu; Nan Tang; Chunxia Mei; Hao Zhang; Gang Wang; Jian Lu; Wei Chen
37049619|j|Nutrients
37049619|y|2023
37049619|a|Functional constipation (FC) is a gastrointestinal disorder with high incidence, and it seriously affects patients' physical and mental health. Several studies have shown that the gut microbiome is associated with FC, but these studies have produced inconsistent findings, with few reflecting the relationship between the gut microbiome and metabolites. This study used 16S rRNA microbial genomics and non-target metabolome based on liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to analyze the gut microbiota composition and serum metabolic profiles of 30 FC patients and 28 healthy individuals. We found that patients with FC and healthy individuals have different gut microbiota structures and serum metabolic profiles. FC patients had more Bacteroides and butyrate-producing bacteria (Roseburia, Faecaliberium, Butyriccoccus). The upstream products of host arginine biosynthesis (2-oxoglutaric acid, <i>L</i>-glutamic acid, <i>N</i>-acetylornithine, and <i>L</i>-ornithine) were significantly reduced in FC patients' serum metabolites. In summary, our study describes the gut microbiome and serum metabolome of patients with functional constipation. It reveals that functional constipation may be associated with increased Bacteroidetes and downregulation of upstream products of host arginine biosynthesis, which may be potential markers for diagnosing functional constipation.


36650572|t|Risk factors for eating disorders: findings from a rapid review.
36650572|w|Sarah Barakat; Siân A McLean; Emma Bryant; Anvi Le; Peta Marks; Stephen Touyz; Sarah Maguire
36650572|j|Journal of eating disorders
36650572|y|2023
36650572|a|Risk factors represent a range of complex variables associated with the onset, development, and course of eating disorders. Understanding these risk factors is vital for the refinement of aetiological models, which may inform the development of targeted, evidence-based prevention, early intervention, and treatment programs. This Rapid Review aimed to identify and summarise research studies conducted within the last 12 years, focusing on risk factors associated with eating disorders. The current review forms part of a series of Rapid Reviews to be published in a special issue in the Journal of Eating Disorders, funded by the Australian Government to inform the development of the National Eating Disorder Research and Translation Strategy 2021-2031. Three databases were searched for studies published between 2009 and 2021, published in English, and comprising high-level evidence studies (meta-analyses, systematic reviews, moderately sized randomised controlled studies, moderately sized controlled-cohort studies, or population studies). Data pertaining to risk factors for eating disorders were synthesised and outlined in the current paper. A total of 284 studies were included. The findings were divided into nine main categories: (1) genetics, (2) gastrointestinal microbiota and autoimmune reactions, (3) childhood and early adolescent exposures, (4) personality traits and comorbid mental health conditions, (5) gender, (6) socio-economic status, (7) ethnic minority, (8) body image and social influence, and (9) elite sports. A substantial amount of research exists supporting the role of inherited genetic risk in the development of eating disorders, with biological risk factors, such as the role of gut microbiota in dysregulation of appetite, an area of emerging evidence. Abuse, trauma and childhood obesity are strongly linked to eating disorders, however less conclusive evidence exists regarding developmental factors such as role of in-utero exposure to hormones. Comorbidities between eating disorders and mental health disorders, including personality and mood disorders, have been found to increase the severity of eating disorder symptomatology. Higher education attainment, body image-related factors, and use of appearance-focused social media are also associated with increased risk of eating disorder symptoms. Eating disorders are associated with multiple risk factors. An extensive amount of research has been conducted in the field; however, further studies are required to assess the causal nature of the risk factors identified in the current review. This will assist in understanding the sequelae of eating disorder development and in turn allow for enhancement of existing interventions and ultimately improved outcomes for individuals.


38649365|t|Diet and the gut microbiome in patients with Parkinson's disease.
38649365|w|Dayoon Kwon; Keren Zhang; Kimberly C Paul; Aline D Folle; Irish Del Rosario; Jonathan P Jacobs; Adrienne M Keener; Jeff M Bronstein; Beate Ritz
38649365|j|NPJ Parkinson's disease
38649365|y|2024
38649365|a|It has been suggested that gut microbiota influence Parkinson's disease (PD) via the gut-brain axis. Here, we examine associations between diet and gut microbiome composition and its predicted functional pathways in patients with PD. We assessed gut microbiota in fecal samples from 85 PD patients in central California using 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Diet quality was assessed by calculating the Healthy Eating Index 2015 (HEI-2015) based on the Diet History Questionnaire II. We examined associations of diet quality, fiber, and added sugar intake with microbial diversity, composition, taxon abundance, and predicted metagenomic profiles, adjusting for age, sex, race/ethnicity, and sequencing platform. Higher HEI scores and fiber intake were associated with an increase in putative anti-inflammatory butyrate-producing bacteria, such as the genera Butyricicoccus and Coprococcus 1. Conversely, higher added sugar intake was associated with an increase in putative pro-inflammatory bacteria, such as the genera Klebsiella. Predictive metagenomics suggested that bacterial genes involved in the biosynthesis of lipopolysaccharide decreased with higher HEI scores, whereas a simultaneous decrease in genes involved in taurine degradation indicates less neuroinflammation. We found that a healthy diet, fiber, and added sugar intake affect the gut microbiome composition and its predicted metagenomic function in PD patients. This suggests that a healthy diet may support gut microbiome that has a positive influence on PD risk and progression.


31954994|t|Dysbiosis in Parkinson's disease might be triggered by certain antibiotics.
31954994|w|Gábor Ternák; Dániel Kuti; Krisztina J Kovács
31954994|j|Medical hypotheses
31954994|y|2020
31954994|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative amyloid disorder with debilitating motor symptoms due to the loss of dopamine-synthesizing, basal ganglia-projecting neurons in the substantia nigra. An interesting feature of the disease is that most of PD patients have gastrointestinal problems and bacterial dysbiosis, years before the full expression of motor symptoms. We hypothesized that antibiotic consumption might be a contributing factor of gut microbiome dysbiosis in PD, favoring curli-producing Enterobacteria. Curli is a bacterial α-synuclein (αSyn) which is deposited first in the enteric nervous system and amyloid deposits are propagated in a prion like manner to the central nervous system. In addition, antibiotics result in a low-grade systemic inflammation, which also contributes to damage of neurons in enteric- and central nervous system. To support our hypothesis, by comparing PD prevalence change with antibiotic consumption data in EU countries, we found significant positive correlation between use narrow spectrum penicillin + penicillinase resistant penicillin and increased prevalence of the disease.


36376318|t|Metagenomics of Parkinson's disease implicates the gut microbiome in multiple disease mechanisms.
36376318|w|Zachary D Wallen; Ayse Demirkan; Guy Twa; Gwendolyn Cohen; Marissa N Dean; David G Standaert; Timothy R Sampson; Haydeh Payami
36376318|j|Nature communications
36376318|y|2022
36376318|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) may start in the gut and spread to the brain. To investigate the role of gut microbiome, we conducted a large-scale study, at high taxonomic resolution, using uniform standardized methods from start to end. We enrolled 490 PD and 234 control individuals, conducted deep shotgun sequencing of fecal DNA, followed by metagenome-wide association studies requiring significance by two methods (ANCOM-BC and MaAsLin2) to declare disease association, network analysis to identify polymicrobial clusters, and functional profiling. Here we show that over 30% of species, genes and pathways tested have altered abundances in PD, depicting a widespread dysbiosis. PD-associated species form polymicrobial clusters that grow or shrink together, and some compete. PD microbiome is disease permissive, evidenced by overabundance of pathogens and immunogenic components, dysregulated neuroactive signaling, preponderance of molecules that induce alpha-synuclein pathology, and over-production of toxicants; with the reduction in anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective factors limiting the capacity to recover. We validate, in human PD, findings that were observed in experimental models; reconcile and resolve human PD microbiome literature; and provide a broad foundation with a wealth of concrete testable hypotheses to discern the role of the gut microbiome in PD.


35145822|t|Constipation and Cigarette Smoking Are Independent Influences for Parkinson's Disease.
35145822|w|Steven Lehrer; Peter H Rheinstein
35145822|j|Cureus
35145822|y|2022
35145822|a|Background Tobacco smokers have reduced Parkinson's disease (PD) risk. Some patients with PD experience constipation long before they develop mobility problems, and constipation is a frequent complaint of people who try to stop smoking. Recently, the gut microbiome has been implicated in PD. Methods In the present study, we analyzed the relationship between smoking and constipation in subjects with PD and controls. We wished to determine whether the effects of smoking and constipation were independent or whether they might be interrelated. To evaluate the relationship, we used a cohort of subjects from the UK Biobank (UKB). Results In 501,174 subjects, the decreased risk of Parkinson's disease with increased smoking was significant (p < 0.001, two-tailed Fisher's exact test). The increased risk of constipation in subjects with PD was significant (p = 0.001, two-tailed Fisher's exact test). Logistic regression was performed; sex, age, constipation, and smoking were the independent variables, and PD present or absent was the dependent variable. The PD odds ratio (OR) for males was 1.790 (95% confidence interval (CI): 1.629-1.966) times that for females, indicating that PD is more common in men. The risk of PD increased by 1.140 (95% CI: 1.131-1.149) with every year of age. Constipation increased the risk of PD by 4.043 (95% CI: 1.901-8.599). Smoking diminished PD risk by 0.772 (95% CI: 0.690-0.863). Drinking coffee was associated with a reduced risk of PD (OR: 0.815 (95% CI: 0.730-0.909). Drinking tea reduced PD risk by 0.979 (95% CI: 0.962-0.997) for each cup per day. The effects of sex, age, constipation, smoking, drinking coffee, and drinking tea were independent and significant. Conclusion Our analysis suggests that the favorable effect of smoking on PD is independent of the detrimental effect of constipation. Smoking reduces PD risk because it not only stimulates the bowel to empty and prevents constipation but also alters the gut microbiome. Another factor, perhaps the tobacco component diterpenoids, may be responsible for the PD risk-reducing effect.


31275138|t|The Gut-Brain Axis in Neurodegenerative Diseases and Relevance of the Canine Model: A Review.
31275138|w|Yoko M Ambrosini; Dana Borcherding; Anumantha Kanthasamy; Hyun Jung Kim; Auriel A Willette; Albert Jergens; Karin Allenspach; Jonathan P Mochel
31275138|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
31275138|y|2019
31275138|a|Identifying appropriate animal models is critical in developing translatable <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i> systems for therapeutic drug development and investigating disease pathophysiology. These animal models should have direct biological and translational relevance to the underlying disease they are supposed to mimic. Aging dogs not only naturally develop a cognitive decline in many aspects including learning and memory deficits, but they also exhibit human-like individual variability in the aging process. Neurodegenerative processes that can be observed in both human and canine brains include the progressive accumulation of β-amyloid (Aβ) found as diffuse plaques in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), including the <i>gyrus proreus (i.e., medial orbital PFC)</i>, as well as the hippocampus and the cerebral vasculature. Tau pathology, a marker of neurodegeneration and dementia progression, was also found in canine hippocampal synapses. Various epidemiological data show that human patients with neurodegenerative diseases have concurrent intestinal lesions, and histopathological changes in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract occurs decades before neurodegenerative changes. Gut microbiome alterations have also been reported in many neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's diseases, as well as inflammatory central nervous system (CNS) diseases. Interestingly, the dog gut microbiome more closely resembles human gut microbiome in composition and functional overlap compared to rodent models. This article reviews the physiology of the gut-brain axis (GBA) and its involvement with neurodegenerative diseases in humans. Additionally, we outline the advantages and weaknesses of current <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i> models and discuss future research directions investigating major human neurodegenerative diseases such as AD and Parkinson's diseases using dogs.


36786865|t|Arketamine for cognitive impairment in psychiatric disorders.
36786865|w|Kenji Hashimoto
36786865|j|European archives of psychiatry and clinical neuroscience
36786865|y|2023
36786865|a|Cognitive impairment has been observed in patients with various psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, major depressive disorder (MDD), and bipolar disorder (BD). Although modern therapeutic drugs can improve certain symptoms (i.e., psychosis, depression) in these patients, these drugs have not been found to improve cognitive impairment. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (R,S)-ketamine has attracted attention as a rapidly acting antidepressant. In addition to its robust antidepressant effects, (R,S)-ketamine has been suggested to improve cognitive impairment in patients with MDD and BD, despite causing cognitive impairment in healthy control subjects. (R,S)-ketamine is a racemic mixture of equal amounts of (R)-ketamine (or arketamine) and (S)-ketamine (or esketamine). Arketamine has been found to have more potent antidepressant-like actions than esketamine in rodents. Interestingly, arketamine, but not esketamine, has been suggested to improve phencyclidine-induced cognitive deficits in mice. Furthermore, arketamine has been suggested to ameliorate cognitive deficits in rodent offspring after maternal immune activation. In the current article, it is proposed that arketamine has therapeutic potential for treating cognitive impairment in patients with psychiatric disorders. Additionally, the potential role of the gut-microbiome-brain axis in cognitive impairment in psychiatric disorders is discussed.


34876830|t|Common Inflammatory Mechanisms in COVID-19 and Parkinson's Diseases: The Role of Microbiome, Pharmabiotics and Postbiotics in Their Prevention.
34876830|w|Valery Danilenko; Andrey Devyatkin; Mariya Marsova; Madina Shibilova; Rustem Ilyasov; Vladimir Shmyrev
34876830|j|Journal of inflammation research
34876830|y|2021
34876830|a|In the last decade, metagenomic studies have shown the key role of the gut microbiome in maintaining immune and neuroendocrine systems. Malfunction of the gut microbiome can induce inflammatory processes, oxidative stress, and cytokine storm. Dysfunction of the gut microbiome can be caused by short-term (virus infection and other infectious diseases) or long-term (environment, nutrition, and stress) factors. Here, we reviewed the inflammation and oxidative stress in neurodegenerative diseases and coronavirus infection (COVID-19). Here, we reviewed the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) involved in the processes of formation of oxidative stress and inflammation in viral and neurodegenerative diseases. Moreover, the coronavirus uses ACE2 receptors of the RAAS to penetrate human cells. The coronavirus infection can be the trigger for neurodegenerative diseases by dysfunction of the RAAS. Pharmabiotics, postbiotics, and next-generation probiotics, are considered as a means to prevent oxidative stress, inflammatory processes, neurodegenerative and viral diseases through gut microbiome regulation.


30415609|t|Fermented foods, the gut and mental health: a mechanistic overview with implications for depression and anxiety.
30415609|w|Hajara Aslam; Jessica Green; Felice N Jacka; Fiona Collier; Michael Berk; Julie Pasco; Samantha L Dawson
30415609|j|Nutritional neuroscience
30415609|y|2020
30415609|a|Mental disorders including depression and anxiety are often comorbid with gut problems, suggesting a bidirectional relationship between mental health and gut function. Several mechanisms might explain this comorbidity, such as inflammation and immune activation; intestinal permeability; perturbations in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis; neurotransmitter/neuropeptide dysregulation; dietary deficiencies; and disturbed gut microbiome composition. The potential of modulating the microbiome-gut-brain axis, and subsequently mental health, through the use of functional foods, is an emerging and novel topic of interest. Fermented foods are considered functional foods due to their putative health benefits. The process of microbial fermentation converts food substrates into more nutritionally and functionally rich products, resulting in functional microorganisms (probiotics), substrates that enhance proliferation of beneficial bacteria in the gut (prebiotics), and bioactive components (biogenics). These functional ingredients act biologically in the gastrointestinal tract and have the ability to modify the gut microbiota, influence translocation of endotoxins and subsequent immune activation, and promote host nutrition. This narrative review explores the theoretical potential of the functional components present in fermented foods to alter gut physiology and to impact the biological mechanisms thought to underpin depression and anxiety. Pre-clinical studies indicate the benefits of fermented foods in relieving perturbed gut function and for animal models of depression and anxiety. However, in humans, the literature relating to the relevance of fermented food for treating or preventing depression and anxiety is sparse, heterogeneous and has significant limitations. This review identifies a critical research gap for further evaluation of fermented foods in the management of depression anxiety in humans.


34053243|t|Gut Microbiota and Parkinson's Disease: Implications for Faecal Microbiota Transplantation Therapy.
34053243|w|Yongbo Kang; Xing Kang; Hongfang Zhang; Qingqing Liu; Hao Yang; Weiping Fan
34053243|j|ASN neuro
34053243|y|2021
34053243|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) ranks the second place among neurodegenerative diseases in terms of its morbidity, which affects 1-2% people aged over 65 years. In addition to genetics, some environmental factors may exert vital parts in PD occurrence as well. At present, more and more studies are conducted to elucidate the association between gut microbial dysbiosis and the incidence of PD. Gut microbial dysbiosis has a certain effect on both the central nervous system (CNS) and the enteric nervous system (ENS), which indicates that there is a gut-microbiota-brain axis that induces CNS disorders. Some gut microbial strains are suggested to suppress or weaken the neuroinflammation- and gut-inflammation-immune responses, which suggests the protective and pathogenic effects of certain gut microbial species on PD progression. Therefore, gut microbiome may contain plenty of targets for preventing and managing PD. Faecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) may serve as a direct and useful treatment for PD in the future. Nonetheless, there is little available scientific research in this field. The present work reviewed the latest research to examine the association of gut microbiota with PD, and the future prospects of FMT treatment.


37150361|t|Gut microbiota maturity mediates the protective effect of siblings on food allergy.
37150361|w|Yuan Gao; Jakob Stokholm; Martin O'Hely; Anne-Louise Ponsonby; Mimi L K Tang; Sarath Ranganathan; Richard Saffery; Leonard C Harrison; Fiona Collier; Lawrence Gray; David Burgner; John Molloy; Peter D Sly; Susanne Brix; Hanne Frøkiær; Peter Vuillermin
37150361|j|The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology
37150361|y|2023
37150361|a|The mechanisms underlying the protective effect of older siblings on allergic disease remain unclear but may relate to the infant gut microbiota. We sought to investigate whether having older siblings decreases the risk of IgE-mediated food allergy by accelerating the maturation of the infant gut microbiota. In a birth cohort assembled using an unselected antenatal sampling frame (n = 1074), fecal samples were collected at 1 month, 6 months, and 1 year, and food allergy status at 1 year was determined by skin prick test and in-hospital food challenge. We used 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing to derive amplicon sequence variants. Among a random subcohort (n = 323), microbiota-by-age z scores at each time point were calculated using fecal amplicon sequence variants to represent the gut microbiota maturation over the first year of life. A greater number of siblings was associated with a higher microbiota-by-age z score at age 1 year (β  = 0.15 per an additional sibling; 95% CI, 0.05-0.24; P = .003), which was in turn associated with decreased odds of food allergy (odds ratio, 0.45; 95% CI, 0.33-0.61; P < .001). Microbiota-by-age z scores mediated 63% of the protective effect of siblings. Analogous associations were not observed at younger ages. The protective effect of older siblings on the risk of developing IgE-mediated food allergy during infancy is substantially mediated by advanced maturation of the gut microbiota at age 1 year.


34474339|t|Lycium barbarum polysaccharide attenuates emotional injury of offspring elicited by prenatal chronic stress in rats via regulation of gut microbiota.
34474339|w|Feng Zhao; Suzhen Guan; Youjuan Fu; Kai Wang; Zhihong Liu; Tzi Bun Ng
34474339|j|Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie
34474339|y|2021
34474339|a|Stress during pregnancy is not only detrimental to a woman's own physical and mental health, but can also cause changes in the intrauterine environment and even have an impact on later growth and development, this study was designed to understand the changes of gut microbiota in the maternal and offspring caused by prenatal chronic stress, and to explore the regulatory effect of LBP on gut microbiota, and then to improve the emotional damage caused by prenatal chronic stress in the offspring. A rat model of prenatal chronic stress was made and used LBP to intervene by gavage. Fresh feces of offspring were collected, the concentration of microbial metabolites were tested by ELISA. Illumina MiSeqPE300 sequencing technology was used to determine the sequence of 16S rRNA V3-V4 of microorganisms. On the PND 42, the emotional function of offspring were tested by open-field test (OFT), sucrose preference test (SPT) and tail of suspend test (TST). Results indicated that stress factors increased the plasma corticosterone level of rats during pregnancy and they appeared depressive behaviors. The body weight of offspring during prenatal chronic stress was lower than the control group, and the plasma corticosterone level was increased. Prenatal chronic stress had a significant impact on emotional performance of the offspring on OFT, SPT and TST. Alpha diversity of gut microbiota and microbiota composition in offspring of prenatal chronic stress was attenuated and some relationships existed between these parameters. LBP treatment reduced offspring's plasma corticosterone level and improved their body weight, changed the emotional function, increased the diversity of gut microbiota. Collectively, these findings disclose that prenatal chronic stress not only causes emotional injury on the offspring, but also changes the gut microbiota of the mother and offspring; LBP may regulate the intestinal flora of the mother, then reducing the influence of stress factors on the emotional injury of offspring.


34238926|t|Gut microbiota signature in treatment-naïve attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.
34238926|w|Vanesa Richarte; Cristina Sánchez-Mora; Montserrat Corrales; Christian Fadeuilhe; Laura Vilar-Ribó; Lorena Arribas; Estela Garcia; Silvia Karina Rosales-Ortiz; Alejandro Arias-Vasquez; María Soler-Artigas; Marta Ribasés; Josep Antoni Ramos-Quiroga
34238926|j|Translational psychiatry
34238926|y|2021
34238926|a|Compelling evidence supports alterations in gut microbial diversity, bacterial composition, and/or relative abundance of several bacterial taxa in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). However, findings for ADHD are inconsistent among studies, and specific gut microbiome signatures for the disorder remain unknown. Given that previous studies have mainly focused on the pediatric form of the disorder and involved small sample sizes, we conducted the largest study to date to compare the gastrointestinal microbiome composition in 100 medication-naïve adults with ADHD and 100 sex-matched healthy controls. We found evidence that ADHD subjects have differences in the relative abundance of several microbial taxa. At the family level, our data support a lower relative abundance of Gracilibacteraceae and higher levels of Selenomonadaceae and Veillonellaceae in adults with ADHD. In addition, the ADHD group showed higher levels of Dialister and Megamonas and lower abundance of Anaerotaenia and Gracilibacter at the genus level. All four selected genera explained 15% of the variance of ADHD, and this microbial signature achieved an overall sensitivity of 74% and a specificity of 71% for distinguishing between ADHD patients and healthy controls. We also tested whether the selected genera correlate with age, body mass index (BMI), or scores of the ADHD rating scale but found no evidence of correlation between genera relative abundance and any of the selected traits. These results are in line with recent studies supporting gut microbiome alterations in neurodevelopment disorders, but further studies are needed to elucidate the role of the gut microbiota on the ADHD across the lifespan and its contribution to the persistence of the disorder from childhood to adulthood.


35111696|t|Gut Microbiota: A Key Regulator in the Effects of Environmental Hazards on Modulates Insulin Resistance.
35111696|w|Ruixue Huang
35111696|j|Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology
35111696|y|2021
35111696|a|Insulin resistance is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), type II diabetes (T2D), and Parkinson's disease (PD). Emerging evidence indicates that these disorders are typically characterized by alterations in the gut microbiota composition, diversity, and their metabolites. Currently, it is understood that environmental hazards including ionizing radiation, toxic heavy metals, pesticides, particle matter, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are capable of interacting with gut microbiota and have a non-beneficial health effect. Based on the current study, we propose the hypothesis of "gut microenvironment baseline drift". According to this "baseline drift" theory, gut microbiota is a temporarily combined cluster of species sharing the same environmental stresses for a short period, which would change quickly under the influence of different environmental factors. This indicates that the microbial species in the gut do not have a long-term relationship; any split, division, or recombination may occur in different environments. Nonetheless, the "baseline drift" theory considers the critical role of the response of the whole gut microbiome. Undoubtedly, this hypothesis implies that the gut microbiota response is not merely a "cross junction" switch; in contrast, the human health or disease is a result of a rich palette of gut-microbiota-driven multiple-pathway responses. In summary, environmental factors, including hazardous and normal factors, are critical to the biological impact of the gut microbiota responses and the dual effect of the gut microbiota on the regulation of biological functions. Novel appreciation of the role of gut microbiota and environmental hazards in the insulin resistance would shed new light on insulin resistance and also promote the development of new research direction and new overcoming strategies for patients.


36803912|t|Past and present: a bibliometric study on polycystic ovary syndrome.
36803912|w|Mengcheng Cai; Zhexin Ni; Zike Yuan; Jin Yu; Danying Zhang; Ruipin Yao; Ling Zhou; Chaoqin Yu
36803912|j|Journal of ovarian research
36803912|y|2023
36803912|a|Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common gynecological endocrine disease that has a great impact on women's physical and mental health. It is a burden to social and patients' economy. In recent years, researchers' understanding of PCOS has reached a new level. However, many PCOS reports have different directions, and overlapping phenomena exist. Therefore, clarifying the research status of PCOS is important. This study aims to summarise the research status of PCOS and predict the hot spots of PCOS in the future by Bibliometricx. The keywords of PCOS research focused on PCOS, insulin resistance (IR), obesity and metformin. Keywords plus co-occurrence network showed that PCOS, IR and prevalence were hot spots in the recent 10 years. Moreover, we found that gut microbiota may be a carrier that can be used to study hormone levels, IR-related mechanisms, prevention and treatment in the future. This study is helpful for researchers to quickly grasp the current situation of PCOS research and enlighten researchers to explore new problems in PCOS.


36969812|t|Demonstrating a link between diet, gut microbiota and brain: <sup>14</sup>C radioactivity identified in the brain following gut microbial fermentation of <sup>14</sup>C-radiolabeled tyrosine in a pig model.
36969812|w|Margaret Murray; Christopher K Barlow; Scott Blundell; Mark Buecking; Anne Gibbon; Bernd Goeckener; Lisa M Kaminskas; Patricia Leitner; Sophie Selby-Pham; Andrew Sinclair; Habtewold D Waktola; Gary Williamson; Louise E Bennett
36969812|j|Frontiers in nutrition
36969812|y|2023
36969812|a|There is a need to better understand the relationship between the diet, the gut microbiota and mental health. Metabolites produced when the human gut microbiota metabolize amino acids may enter the bloodstream and have systemic effects. We hypothesize that fermentation of amino acids by a resistant protein-primed gut microbiota could yield potentially toxic metabolites and disturb the availability of neurotransmitter precursors to the brain. However, these mechanisms are challenging to investigate <i>via</i> typical <i>in vitro</i> and clinical methods. We developed a novel workflow using <sup>14</sup>C radiolabeling to investigate complex nutrient-disease relationships. The first three steps of the workflow are reported here. α-Linolenic acid (ALA) was used as a model nutrient to confirm the efficacy of the workflow, and tyrosine (Tyr) was the test nutrient. <sup>14</sup>C-Tyr was administered to male weanling pigs fed a high resistant protein diet, which primed the gut microbiota for fermenting protein. The hypotheses were; (1) that expected biodistribution of <sup>14</sup>C-ALA would be observed, and (2) that radioactivity from <sup>14</sup>C-Tyr, representing Tyr and other amino acids released from resistant protein following gut microbial fermentation, would be bioavailable to the brain. Radioactivity from the <sup>14</sup>C-ALA was detected in tissues reflecting normal utilization of this essential fatty acid. Radioactivity from the <sup>14</sup>C-Tyr was detected in the brain (0.15% of original dose). Metabolites of gut-fermented protein and specifically amino acid precursors to neurotransmitters such as tyrosine, are potentially able to affect brain function. By extension, resistant proteins in the diet reaching the gut microbiota, also have potential to release metabolites that can potentially affect brain function. The high specificity of detection of <sup>14</sup>C radioactivity demonstrates that the proposed workflow can similarly be applied to understand other key diet and health paradigms.


30718848|t|The neuroactive potential of the human gut microbiota in quality of life and depression.
30718848|w|Mireia Valles-Colomer; Gwen Falony; Youssef Darzi; Ettje F Tigchelaar; Jun Wang; Raul Y Tito; Carmen Schiweck; Alexander Kurilshikov; Marie Joossens; Cisca Wijmenga; Stephan Claes; Lukas Van Oudenhove; Alexandra Zhernakova; Sara Vieira-Silva; Jeroen Raes
30718848|j|Nature microbiology
30718848|y|2019
30718848|a|The relationship between gut microbial metabolism and mental health is one of the most intriguing and controversial topics in microbiome research. Bidirectional microbiota-gut-brain communication has mostly been explored in animal models, with human research lagging behind. Large-scale metagenomics studies could facilitate the translational process, but their interpretation is hampered by a lack of dedicated reference databases and tools to study the microbial neuroactive potential. Surveying a large microbiome population cohort (Flemish Gut Flora Project, n = 1,054) with validation in independent data sets (n<sub>total</sub> = 1,070), we studied how microbiome features correlate with host quality of life and depression. Butyrate-producing Faecalibacterium and Coprococcus bacteria were consistently associated with higher quality of life indicators. Together with Dialister, Coprococcus spp. were also depleted in depression, even after correcting for the confounding effects of antidepressants. Using a module-based analytical framework, we assembled a catalogue of neuroactive potential of sequenced gut prokaryotes. Gut-brain module analysis of faecal metagenomes identified the microbial synthesis potential of the dopamine metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid as correlating positively with mental quality of life and indicated a potential role of microbial γ-aminobutyric acid production in depression. Our results provide population-scale evidence for microbiome links to mental health, while emphasizing confounder importance.


33171595|t|PROVIT: Supplementary Probiotic Treatment and Vitamin B7 in Depression-A Randomized Controlled Trial.
33171595|w|Eva Z Reininghaus; Martina Platzer; Alexandra Kohlhammer-Dohr; Carlo Hamm; Sabrina Mörkl; Susanne A Bengesser; Frederike T Fellendorf; Theressa Lahousen-Luxenberger; Birgitta Leitner-Afschar; Helmut Schöggl; Daniela Amberger-Otti; Walter Wurm; Robert Queissner; Armin Birner; Valerie S Falzberger; Annamaria Painold; Werner Fitz; Jolana Wagner-Skacel; Martina Brunnmayr; Alexandra Rieger; Alexander Maget; Renate Unterweger; Karin Schwalsberger; Bernd Reininghaus; Melanie Lenger; Thomaz F S Bastiaanssen; Nina Dalkner
33171595|j|Nutrients
33171595|y|2020
33171595|a|Gut microbiota are suspected to affect brain functions and behavior as well as lowering inflammation status. Therefore, an effect on depression has already been suggested by recent research. The aim of this randomized double-blind controlled trial was to evaluate the effect of probiotic treatment in depressed individuals. Within inpatient care, 82 currently depressed individuals were randomly assigned to either receive a multistrain probiotic plus biotin treatment or biotin plus placebo for 28 days. Clinical symptoms as well as gut microbiome were analyzed at the begin of the study, after one and after four weeks. After 16S rRNA analysis, microbiome samples were bioinformatically explored using QIIME, SPSS, R and Piphillin. Both groups improved significantly regarding psychiatric symptoms. <i>Ruminococcus gauvreauii</i> and <i>Coprococcus 3</i> were more abundant and β-diversity was higher in the probiotics group after 28 days. KEGG-analysis showed elevated inflammation-regulatory and metabolic pathways in the intervention group. The elevated abundance of potentially beneficial bacteria after probiotic treatment allows speculations on the functionality of probiotic treatment in depressed individuals. Furthermore, the finding of upregulated vitamin B6 and B7 synthesis underlines the connection between the quality of diet, gut microbiota and mental health through the regulation of metabolic functions, anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic properties. Concluding, four-week probiotic plus biotin supplementation, in inpatient individuals with a major depressive disorder diagnosis, showed an overall beneficial effect of clinical treatment. However, probiotic intervention compared to placebo only differed in microbial diversity profile, not in clinical outcome measures.


37374992|t|Gut Microbiome Transplants and Their Health Impacts across Species.
37374992|w|Benjamin H Levine; Jessica M Hoffman
37374992|j|Microorganisms
37374992|y|2023
37374992|a|The human gut, required for ingesting and processing food, extracting nutrients, and excreting waste, is made up of not just human tissue but also trillions of microbes that are responsible for many health-promoting functions. However, this gut microbiome is also associated with multiple diseases and negative health outcomes, many of which do not have a cure or treatment. One potential mechanism to alleviate these negative health effects caused by the microbiome is the use of microbiome transplants. Here, we briefly review the gut's functional relationships in laboratory model systems and humans, with a focus on the different diseases they directly affect. We then provide an overview of the history of microbiome transplants and their use in multiple diseases including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, as well as <i>Clostridioides difficile</i> infections, and irritable bowel syndrome. We finally provide insights into areas of research in which microbiome transplant research is lacking, but that simultaneously may provide significant health improvements, including age-related neurodegenerative diseases.


36590421|t|The gut microbiome in human health and disease-Where are we and where are we going? A bibliometric analysis.
36590421|w|Zhiqiang Huang; Kun Liu; Wenwen Ma; Dezhi Li; Tianlu Mo; Qing Liu
36590421|j|Frontiers in microbiology
36590421|y|2022
36590421|a|There are trillions of microbiota in our intestinal tract, and they play a significant role in health and disease <i>via</i> interacting with the host in metabolic, immune, neural, and endocrine pathways. Over the past decades, numerous studies have been published in the field of gut microbiome and disease. Although there are narrative reviews of gut microbiome and certain diseases, the whole field is lack of systematic and quantitative analysis. Therefore, we outline research status of the gut microbiome and disease, and present insights into developments and characteristics of this field to provide a holistic grasp and future research directions. An advanced search was carried out in the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC), basing on the term "gut microbiome" and its synonyms. The current status and developing trends of this scientific domain were evaluated by bibliometric methodology. CiteSpace was used to perform collaboration network analysis, co-citation analysis and citation burst detection. A total of 29,870 articles and 13,311 reviews were retrieved from the database, which involve 42,900 keywords, 176 countries/regions, 19,065 institutions, 147,225 authors and 4,251 journals. The gut microbiome and disease research is active and has received increasing attention. Co-cited reference analysis revealed the landmark articles in the field. The United States had the largest number of publications and close cooperation with other countries. The current research mainly focuses on gastrointestinal diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD), while extra-intestinal diseases are also rising, such as obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease. Omics technologies, fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) and metabolites linked to mechanism would be more concerned in the future. The gut microbiome and disease has been a booming field of research, and the trend is expected to continue. Overall, this research field shows a multitude of challenges and great opportunities.


30525951|t|Bifidobacterium infantis M-63 improves mental health in victims with irritable bowel syndrome developed after a major flood disaster.
30525951|w|Z F Ma; N Yusof; N Hamid; R M Lawenko; W M Z Wan Mohammad; M T Liong; H Sugahara; T Odamaki; J Xiao; Y Y Lee
30525951|j|Beneficial microbes
30525951|y|2019
30525951|a|Individuals in a community who developed irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) after major floods have significant mental health impairment. We aimed to determine if Bifidobacterium infantis M-63 was effective in improving symptoms, psychology and quality of life measures in flood-affected individuals with IBS and if the improvement was mediated by gut microbiota changes. Design was non-randomised, open-label, controlled before-and-after. Of 53 participants, 20 with IBS were given B. infantis M-63 (1×10<sup>9</sup> cfu/sachet/day) for three months and 33 were controls. IBS symptom severity scale, hospital anxiety and depression scale, SF-36 Questionnaire, hydrogen breath testing for small intestinal bacterial overgrowth and stools for 16S rRNA metagenomic analysis were performed before and after intervention. 11 of 20 who were given probiotics (M-63) and 20 of 33 controls completed study as per-protocol. Mental well-being was improved with M-63 vs controls for full analysis (P=0.03) and per-protocol (P=0.01) populations. Within-group differences were observed for anxiety and bodily pain (both P=0.04) in the M-63 per-protocol population. Lower ratio of Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes was observed with M-63 vs controls (P=0.01) and the lower ratio was correlated with higher post-intervention mental score (P=0.04). B. infantis M-63 is probably effective in improving mental health of victims who developed IBS after floods and this is maybe due to restoration of microbial balance and the gut-brain axis. However, our conclusion must be interpreted within the context of limited sample size. The study was retrospectively registered on 12 October 2017 and the Trial Registration Number (TRN) was NCT03318614.


28680792|t|Using Animal Models to Study the Role of the Gut-Brain Axis in Autism.
28680792|w|Jess Nithianantharajah; Gayathri K Balasuriya; Ashley E Franks; Elisa L Hill-Yardin
28680792|j|Current developmental disorders reports
28680792|y|2017
28680792|a|Individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) commonly also suffer from gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction; however, few animal model studies have systematically examined both ASD and GI dysfunction. In this review, we highlight studies investigating GI dysfunction and alterations in gut microbiota in animal models of ASD with the aim of determining if routinely used microbiology and enteric neurophysiology assays could expand our understanding of the link between the two. Gut-brain axis research is expanding, and several ASD models demonstrate GI dysfunction. The integration of well-established assays for detecting GI dysfunction into standard behavioural testing batteries is needed. Advances in understanding the role of the gut-brain axis in ASD are emerging; however, we outline standard assays for investigating gut-brain axis function in rodents to strengthen future phenotyping studies. Integrating these findings to the field of animal behaviour is one of the next major challenges in autism research.


36278360|t|Exploring the Connection Between the Gut Microbiome and Parkinson's Disease Symptom Progression and Pathology: Implications for Supplementary Treatment Options.
36278360|w|Dennis G Chan; Katelyn Ventura; Ally Villeneuve; Paul Du Bois; Matthew R Holahan
36278360|j|Journal of Parkinson's disease
36278360|y|2022
36278360|a|The contribution of the microbiota to induce gastrointestinal inflammation is hypothesized to be a key component of alpha-synuclein (aSyn) aggregation within the gastrointestinal (GI) tract in the pathological progression of Parkinson's disease (PD). The function of the GI tract is governed by a system of neurons that form part of the enteric nervous system (ENS). The ENS hosts  100-500 million nerve cells within two thin layers lining the GI tract. The gut-brain axis (GBA) is the major communication pathway between the ENS and the central nervous system. It has become increasingly clear that the microbiota in the gut are key regulators of GBA function and help to maintain homeostasis in the immune and endocrine systems. The GBA may act as a possible etiological launching pad for the pathogenesis of age-related neurodegenerative diseases, such as PD, because of an imbalance in the gut microbiota. PD is a multi-faceted illness with multiple biological, immunological, and environmental factors contributing to its pathological progression. Interestingly, individuals with PD have an altered gut microbiota compared to healthy individuals. However, there is a lack of literature describing the relationship between microbiota composition in the gut and symptom progression in PD patients. This review article examines how the pathology and symptomology of PD may originate from dysregulated signaling in the ENS. We then discuss by targeting the imbalance within the gut microbiota such as prebiotics and probiotics, some of the prodromal symptoms might be alleviated, possibly curtailing the pathological spread of aSyn and ensuing debilitating motor symptoms.


37069399|t|The gut microbiota contributes to the pathogenesis of anorexia nervosa in humans and mice.
37069399|w|Yong Fan; René Klinkby Støving; Samar Berreira Ibraim; Tuulia Hyötyläinen; Florence Thirion; Tulika Arora; Liwei Lyu; Evelina Stankevic; Tue Haldor Hansen; Pierre Déchelotte; Tim Sinioja; Oddny Ragnarsdottir; Nicolas Pons; Nathalie Galleron; Benoît Quinquis; Florence Levenez; Hugo Roume; Gwen Falony; Sara Vieira-Silva; Jeroen Raes; Loa Clausen; Gry Kjaersdam Telléus; Fredrik Bäckhed; Matej Oresic; S Dusko Ehrlich; Oluf Pedersen
37069399|j|Nature microbiology
37069399|y|2023
37069399|a|Anorexia nervosa (AN) is an eating disorder with a high mortality. About 95% of cases are women and it has a population prevalence of about 1%, but evidence-based treatment is lacking. The pathogenesis of AN probably involves genetics and various environmental factors, and an altered gut microbiota has been observed in individuals with AN using amplicon sequencing and relatively small cohorts. Here we investigated whether a disrupted gut microbiota contributes to AN pathogenesis. Shotgun metagenomics and metabolomics were performed on faecal and serum samples, respectively, from a cohort of 77 females with AN and 70 healthy females. Multiple bacterial taxa (for example, Clostridium species) were altered in AN and correlated with estimates of eating behaviour and mental health. The gut virome was also altered in AN including a reduction in viral-bacterial interactions. Bacterial functional modules associated with the degradation of neurotransmitters were enriched in AN and various structural variants in bacteria were linked to metabolic features of AN. Serum metabolomics revealed an increase in metabolites associated with reduced food intake (for example, indole-3-propionic acid). Causal inference analyses implied that serum bacterial metabolites are potentially mediating the impact of an altered gut microbiota on AN behaviour. Further, we performed faecal microbiota transplantation from AN cases to germ-free mice under energy-restricted feeding to mirror AN eating behaviour. We found that the reduced weight gain and induced hypothalamic and adipose tissue gene expression were related to aberrant energy metabolism and eating behaviour. Our 'omics' and mechanistic studies imply that a disruptive gut microbiome may contribute to AN pathogenesis.


38405047|t|Depression and the Aberrant Intestinal Microbiome.
38405047|w|Ann F Kopera; Yii Chun Khiew; Mohd Amer Alsamman; Mark C Mattar; Raena S Olsen; David B Doman
38405047|j|Gastroenterology & hepatology
38405047|y|2024
38405047|a|Depression is one of the most common mental health disorders affecting adults in the United States. The current treatment is the combination of pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy. Recently, the evidence linking gut microbiome dysregulation to the development of depression has grown. The pathophysiology is currently poorly understood, although leading hypotheses include involvement of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, a bidirectional relationship between the gut microbiome and the central nervous system, and production of signaling molecules by the gut microbiome. Available and emerging treatments of the aberrant microbiome include antidepressants, antibiotics, diet modification, probiotics, and fecal microbiota transplant. This article explores the interconnectivity of gut microbiota and depression and treatments targeted toward the gut, reviews the gastroenterologist's potential role in managing gut dysbiosis in patients with depression, and highlights research topics to be addressed to create evidence-based guidelines.


35110993|t|Impending Mental Health Issues During Coronavirus Disease 2019 - Time for Personalized Nutrition Based on the Gut Microbiota to Tide Over the Crisis?
35110993|w|Debojyoti Dhar
35110993|j|Frontiers in neuroscience
35110993|y|2021
35110993|a|Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a major pandemic facing the world today caused by SARS-CoV-2 which has implications on our mental health as well. The uncertain future, fear of job loss, lockdown and negative news all around have taken a heavy toll on the mental health of individuals from across the world. Stress and anxiety can affect the COVID-19 patients even more. Recent study suggests COVID-19 infection may lead to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Certain prebiotics and probiotics have been shown to have anxiolytic effect through gut microbiota modulation. Incidentally, preliminary report also suggests a differential microbial profile in COVID-19 patients as compared to healthy individuals. Gut microbiota's role in anxiety and depression is well studied. The importance of the "gut-brain" axis has been implicated in overall mental health. It is known that diet, environmental factors and genetics play an important role in shaping gut microbiota. Trials may be initiated to study if personalized diet and supplementation based on individual's gut microbiome profile may improve the general mental well-being of people prone to anxiety during this pandemic. Also, COVID-19 patients may be provided personalized nutritional therapy based on their gut microbiota profile to see if PTSD and anxiety symptoms can be alleviated.


33521857|t|Gut microbiota in antiviral strategy from bats to humans: a missing link in COVID-19.
33521857|w|Jia Luo; Shan Liang; Feng Jin
33521857|j|Science China. Life sciences
33521857|y|2021
33521857|a|Bats are a potential natural reservoir for SARS-CoV-2 virus and other viruses detrimental to humans. Accumulated evidence has shown that, in their adaptation to a flight-based lifestyle, remodeling of the gut microbiota in bats may have contributed to immune tolerance to viruses. This evidence from bats provides profound insights into the potential influence of gut microbiota in COVID-19 disease in humans. Here, we highlight recent advances in our understanding of the mechanisms by which the gut microbiota helps bats tolerate deadly viruses, and summarize the current clinical evidence on the influence of gut microbiota on the susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection and risk of COVID-19 leading to a fatal outcome. In addition, we discuss the implications of gut microbiota-targeted approaches for preventing infection and reducing disease severity in COVID-19 patients.


33487078|t|Nutrition-based interventions for mood disorders.
33487078|w|Lais B Martins; Jenneffer Rayane Braga Tibães; Marsal Sanches; Felice Jacka; Michael Berk; Antônio L Teixeira
33487078|j|Expert review of neurotherapeutics
33487078|y|2021
33487078|a|<b>Introduction</b>: 'Nutritional Psychiatry' is an emerging area of research that has great potential as an adjunctive tool for the prevention and treatment of diverse neuropsychiatric disorders. Several nutrition-related aspects, such as obesity, dietary patterns, gut microbiome composition and gut permeability, bioactive food compounds, and nutrients can influence pathways implicated in the pathophysiology of mood disorders.<b>Areas covered</b>: Here, the authors review the current evidence on nutrition-mood interaction and nutrition-based treatments for the two main mood disorders, i.e., major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder.<b>Expert opinion</b>: Consistent evidence from observational studies has pointed out the association between a 'healthy' diet, generally characterized by a higher intake of fruits, vegetables, legumes, nuts, whole grains, and good quality sources of protein (i.e. fish and/or seafood), and decreased risk of mood disorders and the parallel association between a 'Western' diet pattern and increased risk. However, only a few clinical trials have evaluated the effect of nutritional interventions on the treatment of these conditions. The bidirectional interaction between the brain and the gut, named 'brain-gut-microbiome axis' or 'gut-brain axis', plays a key role in the link between nutrition and mood disorders. Therefore, nutrition-based strategies for gut microbiota modulation are promising fields in mood disorders.


31124390|t|Fecal microbiota transplantation from chronic unpredictable mild stress mice donors affects anxiety-like and depression-like behavior in recipient mice via the gut microbiota-inflammation-brain axis.
31124390|w|Nannan Li; Qi Wang; Yan Wang; Anji Sun; Yiwei Lin; Ye Jin; Xiaobai Li
31124390|j|Stress (Amsterdam, Netherlands)
31124390|y|2019
31124390|a|Recent studies have demonstrated that there are significant changes in the gut microbiota (GM) of humans with depression and animal models of depression and chronic stress. In our present study, we determined whether an alteration in GM is a decisive factor in anxiety-like and depression-like behavior and its impact on brain neurochemistry. An antibiotic cocktail was used to deplete the GM of mice before they were colonized, via fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), by the GM of control mice or mice that had been exposed to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS donors). The CUMS-donor group of mice and the mice that were colonized by their microbiota (the CUMS-recipient group) both showed higher levels of anxiety- and depression-like behavior compared to the controls. The GM community of the CUMS-donor and CUMS-recipient was distinctively different from the controls, with the CUMS group characterized by a lower relative abundance of <i>Lactobacillus</i> and a higher relative abundance of <i>Akkermansia</i>. Interestingly, FMT affected both behavior and neuroinflammation. Mice given the CUMS microbiota had significant elevations of interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and the tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) in the hippocampus, which were accompanied by upregulated indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) in the hippocampus. These results suggest that GM modulates pro-inflammatory cytokines in the hippocampus through dysfunctional microbiota-gut-brain axis, exacerbating anxiety- and depression-like phenotypes. Key Points Chronic unpredictable mild stress increased anxiety- and depression-like behavior in mice. Mice colonized with gut microbiota (GM) from stressed mice showed similar behaviors. The GM composition of the donor and recipient mice was also comparable. Their relative pattern of two bacteria has been tied to neuroinflammatory activity. The results suggest a link between GM, brain function, and anxiety and depression.


36693863|t|Data-independent acquisition boosts quantitative metaproteomics for deep characterization of gut microbiota.
36693863|w|Jinzhi Zhao; Yi Yang; Hua Xu; Jianxujie Zheng; Chengpin Shen; Tian Chen; Tao Wang; Bing Wang; Jia Yi; Dan Zhao; Enhui Wu; Qin Qin; Li Xia; Liang Qiao
36693863|j|NPJ biofilms and microbiomes
36693863|y|2023
36693863|a|Metaproteomics can provide valuable insights into the functions of human gut microbiota (GM), but is challenging due to the extreme complexity and heterogeneity of GM. Data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry (MS) has been an emerging quantitative technique in conventional proteomics, but is still at the early stage of development in the field of metaproteomics. Herein, we applied library-free DIA (directDIA)-based metaproteomics and compared the directDIA with other MS-based quantification techniques for metaproteomics on simulated microbial communities and feces samples spiked with bacteria with known ratios, demonstrating the superior performance of directDIA by a comprehensive consideration of proteome coverage in identification as well as accuracy and precision in quantification. We characterized human GM in two cohorts of clinical fecal samples of pancreatic cancer (PC) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). About 70,000 microbial proteins were quantified in each cohort and annotated to profile the taxonomic and functional characteristics of GM in different diseases. Our work demonstrated the utility of directDIA in quantitative metaproteomics for investigating intestinal microbiota and its related disease pathogenesis.


31390549|t|Drug Metabolism as a Community Effort.
31390549|w|Reese Hitchings; Libusha Kelly
31390549|j|Cell metabolism
31390549|y|2019
31390549|a|Levodopa (L-dopa) is the primary treatment for Parkinson's disease. The gut microbiome can metabolize levodopa, potentially leading to decreased efficacy and side effects, but responsible bacteria were unknown. Maini Rekdal et al. (2019) characterize enzymes in two gut bacteria that sequentially metabolize L-dopa and identify a novel inhibitor that may improve outcomes.


36549572|t|The effect of microbiome composition on impulsive and violent behavior: A systematic review.
36549572|w|Michaela Langmajerová; Radka Roubalová; Antonín Šebela; Jan Vevera
36549572|j|Behavioural brain research
36549572|y|2023
36549572|a|The impact of the microbiome on brain function and behavior has recently become an important research topic. We searched for a link between the gut microbiome and impulsive and violent behavior. We focused on critical factors influencing the microbiome establishment that may affect human health later in life, i.e., delivery mode, early-life feeding, and early antibiotic exposure. We searched PubMed, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Library. We included original human studies examining adults and children with impulsive and/or violent behavior that assessed the gut microbiota composition of participants, delivery mode, infant feeding mode, or early antibiotic exposure. Bibliographic searches yielded 429 articles, and 21 met the eligibility criteria. Two studies reported data on patients with schizophrenia with violent behavior, while 19 studies reported data on patients with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The results showed several bacterial taxa associated with ADHD symptomatology and with violent behavior in patients with schizophrenia. No association was found between delivery mode and impulsive behavior, nor did any articles relate infant feeding mode to violent human behavior. Those studies investigating early antibiotic exposure yielded ambiguous results. The heterogeneity of the data and the different methodologies of the included studies limited the external validity of the results. We found few studies that addressed the possible microbiome involvement in the pathophysiology of impulsive and violent behavior in humans. Our review revealed a gap in knowledge regarding links between the gut microbiome and these extreme behavioral patterns.


37981054|t|Neuropsychiatric disturbances in mild cognitive impairment: A scientometric analysis.
37981054|w|Arisara Amrapala; Michel Sabé; Marco Solmi; Michael Maes
37981054|j|Ageing research reviews
37981054|y|2023
37981054|a|Behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) have been extensively studied in dementia than its prodromal stage, known as mild cognitive impairment (MCI). A scientometric study on BPSD in MCI would be valuable in synthesizing the existing body of research and providing insights into the trends, networks, and influencers within this area. We searched for related literature in the Web of Science database and extracted complete text and citation records of each publication. The primary objective was to map the research evolution of BPSD in MCI and highlight dominant research themes. The secondary objective was to identify research network characteristics (authors, journals, countries, and institutions) and abundances. A total of 12,369 studies published between 1980 and 2022 were included in the analysis. We found 51 distinct clusters from the co-cited reference network that were highly credible with significant modularity (Q = 0.856) and silhouette scores (S = 0.932). Five major research domains were identified: symptoms, diagnosis, brain substrates, biochemical pathways, and interventions. In recent years, the research focus in this area has been on gut microbiota, e-health, COVID-19, cognition, and delirium. Collectively, findings from this scientometric analysis can help clarify the scope and direction of future research and clinical practices.


37498481|t|The Role of Gut Microbiota in Blood-Brain Barrier Disruption after Stroke.
37498481|w|Meiqin Zeng; Meichang Peng; Jianhao Liang; Haitao Sun
37498481|j|Molecular neurobiology
37498481|y|2023
37498481|a|Growing evidence has proved that alterations in the gut microbiota have been linked to neurological disorders including stroke. Structural and functional disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is observed after stroke. In this context, there is pioneering evidence supporting that gut microbiota may be involved in the pathogenesis of stroke by regulating the BBB function. However, only a few experimental studies have been performed on stroke models to observe the BBB by altering the structure of gut microbiota, which warrant further exploration. Therefore, in order to provide a novel mechanism for stroke and highlight new insights into BBB modification as a stroke intervention, this review summarizes existing evidence of the relationship between gut microbiota and BBB integrity and discusses the mechanisms of gut microbiota on BBB dysfunction and its role in stroke.


25634609|t|The human gut microbiota with reference to autism spectrum disorder: considering the whole as more than a sum of its parts.
25634609|w|Michael C Toh; Emma Allen-Vercoe
25634609|j|Microbial ecology in health and disease
25634609|y|2015
25634609|a|The human gut microbiota is a complex microbial ecosystem that contributes an important component towards the health of its host. This highly complex ecosystem has been underestimated in its importance until recently, when a realization of the enormous scope of gut microbiota function has been (and continues to be) revealed. One of the more striking of these discoveries is the finding that the gut microbiota and the brain are connected, and thus there is potential for the microbiota in the gut to influence behavior and mental health. In this short review, we outline the link between brain and gut microbiota and urge the reader to consider the gut microbiota as an ecosystem 'organ' rather than just as a collection of microbes filling a niche, using the hypothesized role of the gut microbiota in autism spectrum disorder to illustrate the concept.


37690779|t|Effect of Ginger Root Powder on Gastrointestinal Bacteria Composition, Gastrointestinal Symptoms, Mental Health, Fatigue, and Quality of Life: A Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Trial.
37690779|w|Megan Crichton; Skye Marshall; Wolfgang Marx; Elizabeth Isenring; Xabier Vázquez-Campos; Samantha L Dawson; Anna Lohning
37690779|j|The Journal of nutrition
37690779|y|2023
37690779|a|Despite compositional alterations in gastrointestinal microbiota being purported to underpin some of the therapeutic effects of ginger, the effect of a standardized ginger supplement on gut microbiota has not been tested in humans. To determine the effect of a standardized ginger (Zingiber officinale) root powder, compared to placebo, on gastrointestinal bacteria and associated outcomes in healthy adults. A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial allocated participants aged 18 to 30 y to ginger or microcrystalline cellulose (MCC) placebo. The intervention comprised 1.2 g/d of ginger (4 capsules per day totaling 84 mg/d of active gingerols/shogaols) for 14 d following a 1-wk run-in period. Primary outcomes were gastrointestinal community composition, alpha and beta diversity, and differential abundance, measured using 16S rRNA gene sequencing of fecal samples. Secondary outcomes were gastrointestinal symptoms, bowel function, depression, anxiety, stress, fatigue, quality of life, and adverse events. Fifty-one participants were enrolled and analyzed (71% female; mean age 25 ± 3 y; ginger: n = 29, placebo: n = 22). There was a greater increase in relative abundance of phylum, Actinobacteria, observed following ginger supplementation compared to placebo (U: 145.0; z: -2.1; P = 0.033). Ginger was associated with a greater abundance of the genera Parabacteroides, Bacillus, Ruminococcaceae incertae sedis, unclassified Bacilli, families Defluviitaleaceae, Morganellaceae, and Bacillaceae as well as lower abundance of the genus Blautia and family Sphingomonadaceae (P < 0.05). An improvement in indigestion symptoms was observed with ginger supplementation (U: 196.0; z: -2.4; P = 0.015). No differences between ginger and placebo groups were found for alpha and beta diversity or other secondary outcomes. No moderate or severe adverse events were reported. Supplementation with ginger root powder was safe and altered aspects of gastrointestinal bacteria composition; however, it did not change alpha- or beta diversity, bowel function, gastrointestinal symptoms, mood, or quality of life in healthy adults. These results provide further understanding regarding the mechanisms of action of ginger supplementation. This trial was registered in the Australia New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry as ACTRN12620000302954p and the Therapeutic Goods Administration as CT-2020-CTN-00380-1.


29407287|t|Overview and systematic review of studies of microbiome in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
29407287|w|Tanya T Nguyen; Tomasz Kosciolek; Lisa T Eyler; Rob Knight; Dilip V Jeste
29407287|j|Journal of psychiatric research
29407287|y|2018
29407287|a|Schizophrenia and bipolar disorder are among the leading causes of disability, morbidity, and mortality worldwide. In addition to being serious mental illnesses, these disorders are associated with considerable systemic physiological dysfunction, including chronic inflammation and elevated oxidative stress. The advent of sophisticated sequencing techniques has led to a growing interest in the potential role of gut microbiota in human health and disease. Advances in this area have transformed our understanding of a number of medical conditions and have generated a new perspective suggesting that gut microbiota might be involved in the development and maintenance of brain/mental health. Animal models have demonstrated strong though indirect evidence for a contributory role of intestinal microbiota in psychiatric symptomatology and have linked the microbiome with neuropsychiatric conditions. We present a systematic review of clinical studies of microbiome in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The published literature has a number of limitations; however, the investigations suggest that these disorders are associated with reduced microbial diversity and show global community differences compared to non-psychiatric comparison samples. In some reports, specific microbial taxa were associated with clinical disease characteristics, including physical health, depressive and psychotic symptoms, and sleep, but little information on the functional potential of those community changes. Studies also suggest increased intestinal inflammation and permeability, which may be among the principal mechanisms by which microbial dysbiosis impacts systemic physiological functioning. We highlight gaps in the current literature and implications for diagnosis and therapeutic interventions, and outline future directions for microbiome research in psychiatry.


28368029|t|Bifidobacterium in the gut microbiota confer resilience to chronic social defeat stress in mice.
28368029|w|Chun Yang; Yuko Fujita; Qian Ren; Min Ma; Chao Dong; Kenji Hashimoto
28368029|j|Scientific reports
28368029|y|2017
28368029|a|Accumulating evidence suggests that abnormalities in the composition of the gut microbiota may play a role in the pathogenesis of depression. Although approximately 30% mice are resilient to chronic social defeat stress (CSDS), the role of gut microbiota in this stress resilience is unknown. In this study, male C57BL/6 mice were exposed to a different CD1 aggressor mouse for 10 min on 10 consecutive days. A social interaction test was applied to distinguish between resilient and susceptible mice. Using 16S rRNA analysis, we examined the composition of gut microbiota in feces from control, resilient, and susceptible mice. The marked appearance of Bifidobacterium was detected in the resilient mice, whereas in the control and susceptible mice, Bifidobacterium were below the detection limit. Oral intake of Bifidobacterium significantly increased the number of resilient mice after CSDS compared with vehicle-treated mice. These findings suggest that Bifidobacterium may confer resilience to CSDS. Therefore, supplementation of Bifidobacterium may prevent the onset of depression from stress in humans. In addition, supplementation of Bifidobacterium may prevent or minimize relapse from remission induced by inflammation and/or stress in depressed patients.


37852343|t|Major depressive disorder as a neuro-immune disorder: Origin, mechanisms, and therapeutic opportunities.
37852343|w|Gislaine Z Réus; Luana M Manosso; João Quevedo; André F Carvalho
37852343|j|Neuroscience and biobehavioral reviews
37852343|y|2023
37852343|a|Notwithstanding advances in understanding the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD), no single mechanism can explain all facets of this disorder. An expanding body of evidence indicates a putative role for the inflammatory response. Several meta-analyses showed an increase in systemic peripheral inflammatory markers in individuals with MDD. Numerous conditions and circumstances in the modern world may promote chronic systemic inflammation through mechanisms, including alterations in the gut microbiota. Peripheral cytokines may reach the brain and contribute to neuroinflammation through cellular, humoral, and neural pathways. On the other hand, antidepressant drugs may decrease peripheral levels of inflammatory markers. Anti-inflammatory drugs and nutritional strategies that reduce inflammation also could improve depressive symptoms. The present study provides a critical review of recent advances in the role of inflammation in the pathophysiology of MDD. Furthermore, this review discusses the role of glial cells and the main drivers of changes associated with neuroinflammation. Finally, we highlight possible novel neurotherapeutic targets for MDD that could exert antidepressant effects by modulating inflammation.


36583066|t|Impact of broad-spectrum antibiotics on the gut-microbiota-spleen-brain axis.
36583066|w|Xiayun Wan; Akifumi Eguchi; Akemi Sakamoto; Yuko Fujita; Yong Yang; Youge Qu; Masahiko Hatano; Chisato Mori; Kenji Hashimoto
36583066|j|Brain, behavior, & immunity - health
36583066|y|2023
36583066|a|The spleen is a key immune-related organ that plays a role in communication between the brain and the immune system through the brain-spleen axis and brain-gut-microbiota axis. However, how the gut microbiota affects spleen and brain function remains unclear. Here, we investigated whether microbiome depletion induced by administration of an antibiotic cocktail (ABX) affects spleen and brain function. Treatment with ABX for 14 days resulted in a significant decrease in spleen weight and significant alterations in splenic functions, including the percentage of neutrophils, NK cells, macrophages, and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells. Furthermore, ABX treatment resulted in the depletion of a large portion of the gut microbiota. Untargeted metabolomics analysis showed that ABX treatment caused alterations in the levels of certain compounds in the plasma, spleen, and brain. Moreover, ABX treatment decreased the expression of microglia marker Iba1 in the cerebral cortex. Interestingly, correlations were found between the abundance of different microbiome components and metabolites in various tissues, as well as splenic cell populations and spleen weight. These findings suggest that ABX-induced microbiome depletion and altered metabolite levels may affect spleen and brain function through the gut-microbiota-spleen-brain axis.


33657381|t|Systematic analysis of gut microbiome reveals the role of bacterial folate and homocysteine metabolism in Parkinson's disease.
33657381|w|Dorines Rosario; Gholamreza Bidkhori; Sunjae Lee; Janis Bedarf; Falk Hildebrand; Emmanuelle Le Chatelier; Mathias Uhlen; Stanislav Dusko Ehrlich; Gordon Proctor; Ullrich Wüllner; Adil Mardinoglu; Saeed Shoaie
33657381|j|Cell reports
33657381|y|2021
33657381|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common progressive neurological disorder compromising motor functions. However, nonmotor symptoms, such as gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction, precede those affecting movement. Evidence of an early involvement of the GI tract and enteric nervous system highlights the need for better understanding of the role of gut microbiota in GI complications in PD. Here, we investigate the gut microbiome of patients with PD using metagenomics and serum metabolomics. We integrate these data using metabolic modeling and construct an integrative correlation network giving insight into key microbial species linked with disease severity, GI dysfunction, and age of patients with PD. Functional analysis reveals an increased microbial capability to degrade mucin and host glycans in PD. Personalized community-level metabolic modeling reveals the microbial contribution to folate deficiency and hyperhomocysteinemia observed in patients with PD. The metabolic modeling approach could be applied to uncover gut microbial metabolic contributions to PD pathophysiology.


34348619|t|Metabolomic Connections between Schizophrenia, Antipsychotic Drugs and Metabolic Syndrome: A Variety of Players.
34348619|w|Juan D Molina; Sonia Avila; Gabriel Rubio; Francisco López-Muñoz
34348619|j|Current pharmaceutical design
34348619|y|2021
34348619|a|Diagnosis of schizophrenia lacks reliable medical diagnostic tests and robust biomarkers applied to clinical practice. Schizophrenic patients undergoing treatment with antipsychotics suffer reduced life expectancy due to metabolic disarrangements that co-exist with their mental illness and predispose them to develop metabolic syndrome, which is also exacerbated by medication. Metabolomics is an emerging and potent technology able to accelerate this biomedical research. This review focus on a detailed vision of the molecular mechanisms involved both in schizophrenia and antipsychotic-induced metabolic syndrome, based on innovative metabolites that consistently change in nascent metabolic syndrome, drug-naïve, first episode psychosis and/or schizophrenic patients compared to healthy subjects. Main Lines: Supported by metabolomic approaches, although not exclusively, noteworthy variations are reported mainly through serum samples of patients and controls in several scenes: 1) alterations in fatty acids, inflammatory response indicators, amino acids and biogenic amines, biometals, and gut microbiota metabolites (schizophrenia); 2) alterations in metabolites involved in carbohydrate and gut microbiota metabolism, inflammation and oxidative stress (metabolic syndrome), some of them shared with schizophrenia; 3) alterations of cytokines secreted by adipose tissue, phosphatidylcholines, acylcarnitines, Sirtuin 1, orexin-A, and changes in microbiota composition (antipsychotic-induced metabolic syndrome). Novel insights into the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and metabolic side-effects associated with its antipsychotic treatment represent an urgent request for scientists and clinicians. Leptin, carnitines, adiponectin, insulin, or interleukin-6 represent some examples of candidate biomarkers. Cutting-edge technologies like metabolomics have the power to strengthen research for achieving preventive, diagnostic, and therapeutical solutions for schizophrenia.


36601680|t|When the microbiome helps the brain-current evidence.
36601680|w|Jovana Drljača; Nataša Milošević; Maja Milanović; Ludovico Abenavoli; Nataša Milić
36601680|j|CNS neuroscience & therapeutics
36601680|y|2023
36601680|a|The gut microbiota-brain axis has been recognized as a network of connections that provides communication between the gut microflora and both central and autonomic nervous system. The gut microbiota alteration has been targeted for therapy in various neurodegenerative and psychiatric disbalances. Psychobiotics are probiotics that contribute beneficially to the brain function and the host mental health as a result of an interaction with the commensal gut bacteria, although their mechanism of action has not been completely revealed. In this state-of-art review, the findings about the potential therapeutic effects of the psychobiotics alone or in combination with conventional medicine in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, as well as in some psychiatric diseases like depression, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder, have been summarized. The evidence of the psychobiotics therapeutic outcomes obtained in preclinical and clinical trials have been given respectively for the observed neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders.


26242295|t|The link between obesity and vitamin D in bariatric patients with omega-loop gastric bypass surgery - a vitamin D supplementation trial to compare the efficacy of postoperative cholecalciferol loading (LOAD): study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.
26242295|w|Maria Luger; Renate Kruschitz; Rodrig Marculescu; Helmuth Haslacher; Friedrich Hoppichler; Enikö Kallay; Christian Kienbacher; Carmen Klammer; Melanie Kral; Felix Langer; Eva Luger; Gerhard Prager; Michael Trauner; Stefan Traussnigg; Tanja Würger; Karin Schindler; Bernhard Ludvik
26242295|j|Trials
26242295|y|2015
26242295|a|Beyond its classical role in calcium homoeostasis and bone metabolism, vitamin D deficiency has been found to be associated with several diseases, including diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and even obesity itself. Importantly, there are limited data on therapeutic strategies for vitamin D deficiency in bariatric patients, and the procedure-specific guidelines may not be sufficient. To improve long-term outcomes, nutritional screening and appropriate supplementation to prevent nutrient deficiencies are urgently needed. Therefore, the aim of this study is to examine effects and safety of a forced dosing regimen of vitamin D versus conventional dose supplementation on vitamin D levels and other parameters in bariatric patients. The study includes loading plus repeat dosing compared with repeated administration of vitamin D without a loading dose, according to guidelines, in a prospective, double-blind, randomized controlled trial. Up to a triple oral loading dose is given on day 1, then 2 and 4 weeks after surgery (100,000 IU dose each time), followed by an oral maintenance dose (3420 IU/day). The control group (n = 25) will receive placebo, followed by administration of a standard dose (3420 IU/day). We hypothesize that a significant increase in vitamin D levels will occur in patients in the treatment group (n = 25) by 24 weeks after surgery. Further measurements are aimed at evaluating changes in inflammation, bone turnover, insulin resistance, blood pressure, liver, mental health, and gut microbiota of patients undergoing omega-loop gastric bypass surgery. Furthermore, possible associations between concentrations of vitamin D, the involved enzymes, or vitamin D receptor in adipose and/or liver tissues will be determined. To our knowledge, this trial is the first of its kind with this type of vitamin D supplementation in bariatric patients. Its major strength is the design and implementation of evaluation of influencing factors such as liver function, bone health, inflammation, insulin resistance, blood pressure, symptoms of depression, or microbiota. This alternative vitamin D dosing regimen has the potential to be a safe, fast, evidence-based treatment of vitamin D deficiency in bariatric patients. Owing to the increasing number of bariatric patients, it is also of interest to elucidate the link between obesity and vitamin D. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02092376 . Registered on 17 March 2014.


35645785|t|Nutritional Intake and Gut Microbiome Composition Predict Parkinson's Disease.
35645785|w|Michal Lubomski; Xiangnan Xu; Andrew J Holmes; Samuel Muller; Jean Y H Yang; Ryan L Davis; Carolyn M Sue
35645785|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
35645785|y|2022
35645785|a|Models to predict Parkinson's disease (PD) incorporating alterations of gut microbiome (GM) composition have been reported with varying success. To assess the utility of GM compositional changes combined with macronutrient intake to develop a predictive model of PD. We performed a cross-sectional analysis of the GM and nutritional intake in 103 PD patients and 81 household controls (HCs). GM composition was determined by 16S amplicon sequencing of the V3-V4 region of bacterial ribosomal DNA isolated from stool. To determine multivariate disease-discriminant associations, we developed two models using Random Forest and support-vector machine (SVM) methodologies. Using updated taxonomic reference, we identified significant compositional differences in the GM profiles of PD patients in association with a variety of clinical PD characteristics. Six genera were overrepresented and eight underrepresented in PD patients relative to HCs, with the largest difference being overrepresentation of <i>Lactobacillaceae</i> at family taxonomic level. Correlation analyses highlighted multiple associations between clinical characteristics and select taxa, whilst constipation severity, physical activity and pharmacological therapies associated with changes in beta diversity. The random forest model of PD, incorporating taxonomic data at the genus level and carbohydrate contribution to total energy demonstrated the best predictive capacity [Area under the ROC Curve (AUC) of 0.74]. The notable differences in GM diversity and composition when combined with clinical measures and nutritional data enabled the development of a predictive model to identify PD. These findings support the combination of GM and nutritional data as a potentially useful biomarker of PD to improve diagnosis and guide clinical management.


30794085|t|Associations among diet, the gastrointestinal microbiota, and negative emotional states in adults.
30794085|w|Andrew M Taylor; Sharon V Thompson; Caitlyn G Edwards; Salma M A Musaad; Naiman A Khan; Hannah D Holscher
30794085|j|Nutritional neuroscience
30794085|y|2020
30794085|a|<b>Objective:</b> Habitual diet impacts mood and the human gastrointestinal (GI) microbiota. Yet, studies infrequently control for diet when evaluating associations between mood and GI microbiota. Accordingly, we aimed to investigate relationships among diet, GI microbiota, and mood in adults without mood disorders by conducting a cross-sectional examination of dietary intake, subjective emotional state, and fecal microbial taxa abundances. <b>Methods:</b> Adults (<i>N</i> = 133; 25-45 years of age) without physician-diagnosed mood disorders were studied. Fecal DNA was extracted, and the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene was sequenced. Sequences were analyzed using QIIME2. Subjective mood state was assessed using the 42-item Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Scale (DASS-42). Habitual dietary intake was measured with the National Cancer Institute's Diet History Questionnaire II, and diet quality was evaluated with the 2010 Healthy Eating Index (HEI). <b>Results:</b> Relationships were observed between 28 bacterial taxa and DASS-42 scores. Sex-dependent associations were observed among 21 bacterial taxa and DASS-42 scores, including an inverse relationship between Anxiety scale scores and <i>Bifidobacterium</i> in females and an inverse relationship between Depression scale scores and <i>Lactobacillus</i> in males. HEI total fruit and dairy components were inversely associated with Depression and Stress scales, respectively. <b>Conclusions:</b> These results suggest GI microbes are related to mood in adults without diagnosed mood disorders and that these relationships differ by sex and are influenced by dietary fiber intake. Incorporating dietary intake data in gut-microbiota-brain studies may help clarify the roles of specific microbes and dietary components in mental health symptoms.


31722195|t|Integrated Analyses of Microbiome and Longitudinal Metabolome Data Reveal Microbial-Host Interactions on Sulfur Metabolism in Parkinson's Disease.
31722195|w|Johannes Hertel; Amy C Harms; Almut Heinken; Federico Baldini; Cyrille C Thinnes; Enrico Glaab; Daniel A Vasco; Maik Pietzner; Isobel D Stewart; Nicholas J Wareham; Claudia Langenberg; Claudia Trenkwalder; Rejko Krüger; Thomas Hankemeier; Ronan M T Fleming; Brit Mollenhauer; Ines Thiele
31722195|j|Cell reports
31722195|y|2019
31722195|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) exhibits systemic effects on the human metabolism, with emerging roles for the gut microbiome. Here, we integrate longitudinal metabolome data from 30 drug-naive, de novo PD patients and 30 matched controls with constraint-based modeling of gut microbial communities derived from an independent, drug-naive PD cohort, and prospective data from the general population. Our key results are (1) longitudinal trajectory of metabolites associated with the interconversion of methionine and cysteine via cystathionine differed between PD patients and controls; (2) dopaminergic medication showed strong lipidomic signatures; (3) taurine-conjugated bile acids correlated with the severity of motor symptoms, while low levels of sulfated taurolithocholate were associated with PD incidence in the general population; and (4) computational modeling predicted changes in sulfur metabolism, driven by A. muciniphila and B. wadsworthia, which is consistent with the changed metabolome. The multi-omics integration reveals PD-specific patterns in microbial-host sulfur co-metabolism that may contribute to PD severity.


38351227|t|Systematic identification of the role of gut microbiota in mental disorders: a TwinsUK cohort study.
38351227|w|Julie Delanote; Alejandro Correa Rojo; Philippa M Wells; Claire J Steves; Gökhan Ertaylan
38351227|j|Scientific reports
38351227|y|2024
38351227|a|Mental disorders are complex disorders influenced by multiple genetic, environmental, and biological factors. Specific microbiota imbalances seem to affect mental health status. However, the mechanisms by which microbiota disturbances impact the presence of depression, stress, anxiety, and eating disorders remain poorly understood. Currently, there are no robust biomarkers identified. We proposed a novel pyramid-layer design to accurately identify microbial/metabolomic signatures underlying mental disorders in the TwinsUK registry. Monozygotic and dizygotic twins discordant for mental disorders were screened, in a pairwise manner, for differentially abundant bacterial genera and circulating metabolites. In addition, multivariate analyses were performed, accounting for individual-level confounders. Our pyramid-layer study design allowed us to overcome the limitations of cross-sectional study designs with significant confounder effects and resulted in an association of the abundance of genus Parabacteroides with the diagnosis of mental disorders. Future research should explore the potential role of Parabacteroides as a mediator of mental health status. Our results indicate the potential role of the microbiome as a modifier in mental disorders that might contribute to the development of novel methodologies to assess personal risk and intervention strategies.


37771782|t|Oral [60]fullerene reduces neuroinflammation to alleviate Parkinson's disease via regulating gut microbiome.
37771782|w|Xue Li; Ruijun Deng; Jie Li; Hui Li; Zhe Xu; Lei Zhang; Linyin Feng; Chunying Shu; Mingming Zhen; Chunru Wang
37771782|j|Theranostics
37771782|y|2023
37771782|a|Neuroinflammation is considered to drive the pathogenic process of neuronal degeneration in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, effective anti-neuroinflammation therapeutics for PD still remain dissatisfactory. Here we explore a robust therapeutic strategy for PD using anti-neuroinflammatory fullerenes. <b>Methods:</b> Oral fullerene was prepared by a ball-milling method. 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD mouse model was used to investigate the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of it. The gut microenvironment was evaluated by 16S rRNA gene sequencing, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR), and western blot (WB). The neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration were evaluated by pathological analysis, Elisa kits, transmission electron microscopy, Q-PCR, WB and so on. Toxicity was assessed by weight, blood test and hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining. <b>Results:</b> Oral fullerene therapeutic system that dissolved [60]fullerene into olive oil (abbreviated as OFO) was dexterously designed, which could reduce neuroinflammation via regulating the diversity of gut microbiome, increasing the contents of short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and recovering the integrity of gut barrier. Accordingly, the reduction of neuroinflammation prevented dopaminergic neuronal degeneration. And thus, OFO significantly ameliorated motor deficits and fundamentally reversed dopamine (DA) loss in MPTP-induced PD mice. Of note, OFO exhibited low toxicity towards the living body. <b>Conclusion:</b> Our findings suggest that OFO is a safe-to-use, easy-to-apply, and prospective candidate for PD treatment in clinic, opening a therapeutic window for neuroinflammation-triggered neurodegeneration.


37513676|t|The Role of Gut Microbiota in Anxiety, Depression, and Other Mental Disorders as Well as the Protective Effects of Dietary Components.
37513676|w|Ruo-Gu Xiong; Jiahui Li; Jin Cheng; Dan-Dan Zhou; Si-Xia Wu; Si-Yu Huang; Adila Saimaiti; Zhi-Jun Yang; Ren-You Gan; Hua-Bin Li
37513676|j|Nutrients
37513676|y|2023
37513676|a|The number of individuals experiencing mental disorders (e.g., anxiety and depression) has significantly risen in recent years. Therefore, it is essential to seek prevention and treatment strategies for mental disorders. Several gut microbiota, especially Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes, are demonstrated to affect mental health through microbiota-gut-brain axis, and the gut microbiota dysbiosis can be related to mental disorders, such as anxiety, depression, and other mental disorders. On the other hand, dietary components, including probiotics (e.g., <i>Lactobacillus</i> and <i>Bifidobacterium</i>), prebiotics (e.g., dietary fiber and alpha-lactalbumin), synbiotics, postbiotics (e.g., short-chain fatty acids), dairy products, spices (e.g., <i>Zanthoxylum bungeanum</i>, curcumin, and capsaicin), fruits, vegetables, medicinal herbs, and so on, could exert protective effects against mental disorders by enhancing beneficial gut microbiota while suppressing harmful ones. In this paper, the mental disorder-associated gut microbiota are summarized. In addition, the protective effects of dietary components on mental health through targeting the gut microbiota are discussed. This paper can be helpful to develop some dietary natural products into pharmaceuticals and functional foods to prevent and treat mental disorders.


37759312|t|The role of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis and treatment of postpartum depression.
37759312|w|Sheng Zhang; Baili Lu; Gang Wang
37759312|j|Annals of general psychiatry
37759312|y|2023
37759312|a|Postpartum depression (PPD) is a common complication of pregnancy in women, and its pathogenesis mainly involves disturbances of the neuroendocrine regulation, immune system, neurotransmitters, hormone secretion, and the gut microbiome. Gut microbes play essential physiological and pathological roles in the gut-brain axis' pathways which are involved in various central nervous system (CNS) and psychiatric disorders, including PPD. Numerous studies have identified the fundamental role of the gut-brain axis in the pathogenesis and treatment of PPD patients and also correlates with other pathogenic mechanisms of PPD. Disturbances in gut microbes are associated with the disruption of multiple signaling pathways and systems that ultimately lead to PPD development. This review aimed to elucidate the potential connections between gut microbes and the established PPD network, and this might serve as a guide for the development of new efficient diagnostic, therapeutic, and prognostic strategies in the management of PPD.


38582855|t|Gut microbiome is not associated with mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease.
38582855|w|Velma T E Aho; Matthias Klee; Zied Landoulsi; Anna Heintz-Buschart; Lukas Pavelka; Anja K Leist; Rejko Krüger; Patrick May; Paul Wilmes
38582855|j|NPJ Parkinson's disease
38582855|y|2024
38582855|a|Gut microbiome differences between people with Parkinson's disease (PD) and control subjects without Parkinsonism are widely reported, but potential alterations related to PD with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) have yet to be comprehensively explored. We compared gut microbial features of PD with MCI (n = 58) to cognitively unimpaired PD (n = 60) and control subjects (n = 90) with normal cognition. Our results did not support a specific microbiome signature related to MCI in PD.


38421082|t|Unraveling the gut-brain connection: The association of microbiota-linked structural brain biomarkers with behavior and mental health.
38421082|w|Oren Contreras-Rodriguez; Gerard Blasco; Carles Biarnés; Josep Puig; Maria Arnoriaga-Rodríguez; Clàudia Coll-Martinez; Jordi Gich; Lluís Ramió-Torrentà; Anna Motger-Albertí; Vicente Pérez-Brocal; Andrés Moya; Joaquim Radua; José Manuel Fernández-Real
38421082|j|Psychiatry and clinical neurosciences
38421082|y|2024
38421082|a|The gut microbiota can influence human behavior. However, due to the massive multiple-testing problem, research into the relationship between microbiome ecosystems and the human brain faces drawbacks. This problem arises when attempting to correlate thousands of gut bacteria with thousands of brain voxels. We performed brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans on 133 participants and applied machine-learning algorithms (Ridge regressions) combined with permutation tests. Using this approach, we were able to correlate specific gut bacterial families with brain MRI signals, circumventing the difficulties of massive multiple testing while considering sex, age, and body mass index as confounding factors. The relative abundance (RA) of the Selenomonadaceae, Clostridiaceae, and Veillonellaceae families in the gut was associated with altered cerebellar, visual, and frontal T2-mapping and diffusion tensor imaging measures. Conversely, decreased relative abundance of the Eubacteriaceae family was also linked to T2-mapping values in the cerebellum. Significantly, the brain regions associated with the gut microbiome were also correlated with depressive symptoms and attentional deficits. Our analytical strategy offers a promising approach for identifying potential brain biomarkers influenced by gut microbiota. By gathering a deeper understanding of the microbiota-brain connection, we can gain insights into the underlying mechanisms and potentially develop targeted interventions to mitigate the detrimental effects of dysbiosis on brain function and mental health.


33389842|t|The emerging role of mood disorders in inflammatory bowel diseases.
33389842|w|Paweł Kuźnicki; Radosław Kempiński; Katarzyna Neubauer
33389842|j|Advances in clinical and experimental medicine : official organ Wroclaw Medical University
33389842|y|2020
33389842|a|Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are chronic, devastating conditions of the gastrointestinal tract characterized by a complex pathogenesis, increasing worldwide prevalence, a wide spectrum of extraintestinal manifestations, and a reduced health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Furthermore, mood disorders, specifically anxiety and depression, are more prevalent among IBD patients compared to the general population. The connection between mental disorders and IBD is compound, bidirectional and still not fully understood. The IBD may impact psychological health, whereas anxiety and depression are associated with a more aggressive course of IBD. The inflammation process, gut microbiota alterations and drug side effects are factors that influence the mental state of patients with IBD. Importantly, despite the high prevalence of depression and anxiety in IBD, many of the current guidelines do not include clear recommendation for assessment of mental problems in patients and further management. Therefore, monitoring for mood disorders should become a part of the multi-disciplinary and holistic approach to patients with IBD. This review is based on current literature searched in PubMed, mainly considering publications from the last 10 years.


37233680|t|Positive Effects of Probiotic Therapy in Patients with Post-Infectious Fatigue.
37233680|w|Katharina Obermoser; Natascha Brigo; Andrea Schroll; Pablo Monfort-Lanzas; Johanna M Gostner; Sabine Engl; Simon Geisler; Miriam Knoll; Harald Schennach; Günter Weiss; Dietmar Fuchs; Rosa Bellmann-Weiler; Katharina Kurz
37233680|j|Metabolites
37233680|y|2023
37233680|a|Post-infectious fatigue is a common complication that can lead to decreased physical efficiency, depression, and impaired quality of life. Dysbiosis of the gut microbiota has been proposed as a contributing factor, as the gut-brain axis plays an important role in regulating physical and mental health. This pilot study aimed to investigate the severity of fatigue and depression, as well as the quality of life of 70 patients with post-infectious fatigue who received a multi-strain probiotic preparation or placebo in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Patients completed questionnaires to assess their fatigue (fatigue severity scale (FSS)), mood (Beck Depression Inventory II (BDI-II)), and quality of life (short form-36 (SF-36)) at baseline and after 3 and 6 months of treatment. Routine laboratory parameters were also assessed, including immune-mediated changes in tryptophan and phenylalanine metabolism. The intervention was effective in improving fatigue, mood, and quality of life in both the probiotic and placebo groups, with greater improvements seen in the probiotic group. FSS and BDI-II scores declined significantly under treatment with both probiotics and placebo, but patients who received probiotics had significantly lower FSS (<i>p</i> < 0.001) and BDI-II (<i>p</i> < 0.001) scores after 6 months. Quality of life scores improved significantly in patients who received probiotics (<i>p</i> < 0.001), while patients taking a placebo only saw improvements in the "Physical limitation" and "Energy/Fatigue" subcategories. After 6 months neopterin was higher in patients receiving placebo, while no longitudinal changes in interferon-gamma mediated biochemical pathways were observed. These findings suggest that probiotics may be a promising intervention for improving the health of patients with post-infectious fatigue, potentially through modulating the gut-brain axis.


36209779|t|An exploratory study of the gut microbiota in major depression with anxious distress.
36209779|w|Gabrielle Ritchie; Esben Strodl; Sophie Parham; Matthew Bambling; Susanna Cramb; Luis Vitetta
36209779|j|Journal of affective disorders
36209779|y|2023
36209779|a|To explore differences in the diversity and composition of the gut microbiome between major depressive disorder (MDD) with and without anxious distress. The study comprised 117 participants (79 female, 36 male, 2 other, mean age 38.2 ± 13.4 years) with a current major depressive episode (MDE) with (n = 63) and without (n = 54) the anxious distress specifier. A clinical psychologist administered the structured clinical interview for the DSM-5-RV to confirm a diagnosis of depression. Participants provided stool samples which were immediately frozen and stored at -80 °C. These samples were analysed using the Illumina 16S Metagenomics sequencing protocol in which the sequencing primers target the V3 and V4 regions of the 16S rRNA gene. Participants also completed mental health questionnaires to assess severity of depression (BDI-II), generalized anxiety (GAD-7), and stress (PSS). There were no significant group differences in α-diversity (Shannon's diversity Index; Simpson Index), richness (ACE; Chao1), (Pielou's) evenness, or beta diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and weighted UniFrac distance) of gut bacteria. Significant group differences in the relative abundance of gut microbiota however were observed at each taxonomical level, including across 15 genera and 18 species. This was an exploratory study that needs to be replicated across larger samples and compared with a healthy control group. The research contributes to knowledge of the depressive gut microbial profile unique to the anxious distress subtype of MDD.


37925207|t|Food4healthKG: Knowledge graphs for food recommendations based on gut microbiota and mental health.
37925207|w|Chengcheng Fu; Zhisheng Huang; Frank van Harmelen; Tingting He; Xingpeng Jiang
37925207|j|Artificial intelligence in medicine
37925207|y|2023
37925207|a|Food is increasingly acknowledged as a powerful means to promote and maintain mental health. The introduction of the gut-brain axis has been instrumental in understanding the impact of food on mental health. It is widely reported that food can significantly influence gut microbiota metabolism, thereby playing a pivotal role in maintaining mental health. However, the vast amount of heterogeneous data published in recent research lacks systematic integration and application development. To remedy this, we construct a comprehensive knowledge graph, named Food4healthKG, focusing on food, gut microbiota, and mental diseases. The constructed workflow includes the integration of numerous heterogeneous data, entity linking to a normalized format, and the well-designed representation of the acquired knowledge. To illustrate the availability of Food4healthKG, we design two case studies: the knowledge query and the food recommendation based on Food4healthKG. Furthermore, we propose two evaluation methods to validate the quality of the results obtained from Food4healthKG. The results demonstrate the system's effectiveness in practical applications, particularly in providing convincing food recommendations based on gut microbiota and mental health. Food4healthKG is accessible at https://github.com/ccszbd/Food4healthKG.


35572407|t|Interplay of gut microbiota and oxidative stress: Perspective on neurodegeneration and neuroprotection.
35572407|w|Shruti Shandilya; Sandeep Kumar; Niraj Kumar Jha; Kavindra Kumar Kesari; Janne Ruokolainen
35572407|j|Journal of advanced research
35572407|y|2022
35572407|a|Recent research on the implications of gut microbiota on brain functions has helped to gather important information on the relationship between them. Pathogenesis of neurological disorders is found to be associated with dysregulation of gut-brain axis. Some gut bacteria metabolites are found to be directly associated with the increase in reactive oxygen species levels, one of the most important risk factors of neurodegeneration. Besides their morbid association, gut bacteria metabolites are also found to play a significant role in reducing the onset of these life-threatening brain disorders. Studies done in the recent past raises two most important link between gut microbiota and the brain: "gut microbiota-oxidative stress-neurodegeneration" and gut microbiota-antioxidant-neuroprotection. This review aims to gives a deep insight to our readers, of the collective studies done, focusing on the gut microbiota mediated oxidative stress involved in neurodegeneration along with a focus on those studies showing the involvement of gut microbiota and their metabolites in neuroprotection. This review is focused on three main key concepts. Firstly, the mounting evidences from clinical and preclinical arenas shows the influence of gut microbiota mediated oxidative stress resulting in dysfunctional neurological processes. Therefore, we describe the potential role of gut microbiota influencing the vulnerability of brain to oxidative stress, and a budding causative in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Secondly, contributing roles of gut microbiota has been observed in attenuating oxidative stress and inflammation via its own metabolites or by producing secondary metabolites and, also modulation in gut microbiota population with antioxidative and anti-inflammatory probiotics have shown promising neuro resilience. Thirdly, high throughput <i>in silico</i> tools and databases also gives a correlation of gut microbiome, their metabolites and brain health, thus providing fascinating perspective and promising new avenues for therapeutic options.


32899236|t|Alcohol Addiction, Gut Microbiota, and Alcoholism Treatment: A Review.
32899236|w|Shao-Cheng Wang; Yuan-Chuan Chen; Shaw-Ji Chen; Chun-Hung Lee; Ching-Ming Cheng
32899236|j|International journal of molecular sciences
32899236|y|2020
32899236|a|Alcohol addiction is a leading risk factor for personal death and disability. In 2016, alcohol use caused 2.2% of female deaths and 6.8% of male deaths, and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) were 2.3% in female and 8.9% in male. Individuals with alcohol use disorder are at high risk of anxiety, depression, impaired cognition performance, and illicit drug use and are comorbid with liver disease, such as alcoholic hepatitis and liver cirrhosis, which is a major cause of personal death and disability worldwide. Psychological interventions, such as cognitive behavior therapy and motivational interviewing, as well as medical treatments, such as disulfiram, naltrexone, acamprosate, and nalmefene, are used for the treatment of alcohol addiction in Europe and the United States. However, the effect of current interventions is limited, and the need for additional interventions is substantial. Alcohol use impairs the intestinal barrier and causes changes to the intestinal permeability as well as the gut microbiota composition. Emerging studies have tried to reveal the role of the gut-brain axis among individuals with alcohol use disorder with or without alcohol liver disease. Bacterial products penetrate the impaired intestinal barrier and cause central inflammation; changes to the gut microbiota impair enterohepatic circulation of bile acids; alcohol abuse causes shortage of vital nutrients such as thiamine. Several studies have suggested that probiotics, through either oral administration or fecal microbiota transplantation, increased intestinal levels of potentially beneficial bacteria such as bifidobacteria and lactobacilli, improving the levels of liver-associated enzymes in patients with mild alcoholic hepatitis, and demonstrating beneficial psychotropic effects on anxiety and depression. In addition to medications for alcohol addiction, gene editing therapy such as clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPRs) may be another potential research target. Alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH), which are associated with ADH and ALDH genes, are major enzymes involved in alcohol metabolism, and gene editing approaches may have the potential to directly modify specific genes to treat alcoholism caused by genetic defects. Further research is needed to study the effect of the combined treatment for alcohol addiction.


31998605|t|The gut microbiome: an orchestrator of xenobiotic metabolism.
31998605|w|Stephanie L Collins; Andrew D Patterson
31998605|j|Acta pharmaceutica Sinica. B
31998605|y|2020
31998605|a|Microbes inhabiting the intestinal tract of humans represent a site for xenobiotic metabolism. The gut microbiome, the collection of microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract, can alter the metabolic outcome of pharmaceuticals, environmental toxicants, and heavy metals, thereby changing their pharmacokinetics. Direct chemical modification of xenobiotics by the gut microbiome, either through the intestinal tract or re-entering the gut <i>via</i> enterohepatic circulation, can lead to increased metabolism or bioactivation, depending on the enzymatic activity within the microbial niche. Unique enzymes encoded within the microbiome include those that reverse the modifications imparted by host detoxification pathways. Additionally, the microbiome can limit xenobiotic absorption in the small intestine by increasing the expression of cell-cell adhesion proteins, supporting the protective mucosal layer, and/or directly sequestering chemicals. Lastly, host gene expression is regulated by the microbiome, including CYP450s, multi-drug resistance proteins, and the transcription factors that regulate them. While the microbiome affects the host and pharmacokinetics of the xenobiotic, xenobiotics can also influence the viability and metabolism of the microbiome. Our understanding of the complex interconnectedness between host, microbiome, and metabolism will advance with new modeling systems, technology development and refinement, and mechanistic studies focused on the contribution of human and microbial metabolism.


31215725|t|Rapid-acting antidepressant ketamine, its metabolites and other candidates: A historical overview and future perspective.
31215725|w|Kenji Hashimoto
31215725|j|Psychiatry and clinical neurosciences
31215725|y|2019
31215725|a|Major depressive disorder (MDD) is one of the most disabling psychiatric disorders. Approximately one-third of the patients with MDD are treatment resistant to the current antidepressants. There is also a significant therapeutic time lag of weeks to months. Furthermore, depression in patients with bipolar disorder (BD) is typically poorly responsive to antidepressants. Therefore, there exists an unmet medical need for rapidly acting antidepressants with beneficial effects in treatment-resistant patients with MDD or BD. Accumulating evidence suggests that the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist ketamine produces rapid and sustained antidepressant effects in treatment-resistant patients with MDD or BD. Ketamine is a racemic mixture comprising equal parts of (R)-ketamine (or arketamine) and (S)-ketamine (or esketamine). Because (S)-ketamine has higher affinity for NMDAR than (R)-ketamine, esketamine was developed as an antidepressant. On 5 March 2019, esketamine nasal spray was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. However, preclinical data suggest that (R)-ketamine exerts greater potency and longer-lasting antidepressant effects than (S)-ketamine in animal models of depression and that (R)-ketamine has less detrimental side-effects than (R,S)-ketamine or (S)-ketamine. In this article, the author reviews the historical overview of the antidepressant actions of enantiomers of ketamine and its major metabolites norketamine and hydroxynorketamine. Furthermore, the author discusses the other potential rapid-acting antidepressant candidates (i.e., NMDAR antagonists and modulators, low-voltage-sensitive T-type calcium channel inhibitor, potassium channel Kir4.1 inhibitor, negative modulators of γ-aminobutyric acid, and type A [GABA<sub>A</sub> ] receptors) to compare them with ketamine. Moreover, the molecular and cellular mechanisms of ketamine's antidepressant effects are discussed.


36406749|t|A review of the preclinical and clinical studies on the role of the gut microbiome in aging and neurodegenerative diseases and its modulation.
36406749|w|Haslin Madihah Hashim; Suzana Makpol
36406749|j|Frontiers in cellular neuroscience
36406749|y|2022
36406749|a|As the world population ages, the burden of age-related health problems grows, creating a greater demand for new novel interventions for healthy aging. Advancing aging is related to a loss of beneficial mutualistic microbes in the gut microbiota caused by extrinsic and intrinsic factors such as diet, sedentary lifestyle, sleep deprivation, circadian rhythms, and oxidative stress, which emerge as essential elements in controlling and prolonging life expectancy of healthy aging. This condition is known as gut dysbiosis, and it affects normal brain function via the brain-gut microbiota (BGM) axis, which is a bidirectional link between the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) and the central nervous system (CNS) that leads to the emergence of brain disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Here, we reviewed the role of the gut microbiome in aging and neurodegenerative diseases, as well as provided a comprehensive review of recent findings from preclinical and clinical studies to present an up-to-date overview of recent advances in developing strategies to modulate the intestinal microbiome by probiotic administration, dietary intervention, fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), and physical activity to address the aging process and prevent neurodegenerative diseases. The findings of this review will provide researchers in the fields of aging and the gut microbiome design innovative studies that leverage results from preclinical and clinical studies to better understand the nuances of aging, gut microbiome, and neurodegenerative diseases.


36986226|t|The Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis: Psychoneuroimmunological Insights.
36986226|w|Giuseppe Marano; Marianna Mazza; Francesco Maria Lisci; Michele Ciliberto; Gianandrea Traversi; Georgios Demetrios Kotzalidis; Domenico De Berardis; Lucrezia Laterza; Gabriele Sani; Antonio Gasbarrini; Eleonora Gaetani
36986226|j|Nutrients
36986226|y|2023
36986226|a|There is growing interest in the role that the intestinal microbiota and the related autoimmune processes may have in the genesis and presentation of some psychiatric diseases. An alteration in the communication of the microbiota-gut-brain axis, which constitutes a communicative model between the central nervous system (CNS) and the gastro-enteric tract, has been identified as one of the possible causes of some psychiatric diseases. The purpose of this narrative review is to describe evidence supporting a role of the gut microbiota in psychiatric diseases and the impact of diet on microbiota and mental health. Change in the composition of the gut microbiota could determine an increase in the permeability of the intestinal barrier, leading to a cytokine storm. This could trigger a systemic inflammatory activation and immune response: this series of events could have repercussions on the release of some neurotransmitters, altering the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, and reducing the presence of trophic brain factors. Although gut microbiota and psychiatric disorders seem to be connected, more effort is needed to understand the potential causative mechanisms underlying the interactions between these systems.


29489753|t|Environment dominates over host genetics in shaping human gut microbiota.
29489753|w|Daphna Rothschild; Omer Weissbrod; Elad Barkan; Alexander Kurilshikov; Tal Korem; David Zeevi; Paul I Costea; Anastasia Godneva; Iris N Kalka; Noam Bar; Smadar Shilo; Dar Lador; Arnau Vich Vila; Niv Zmora; Meirav Pevsner-Fischer; David Israeli; Noa Kosower; Gal Malka; Bat Chen Wolf; Tali Avnit-Sagi; Maya Lotan-Pompan; Adina Weinberger; Zamir Halpern; Shai Carmi; Jingyuan Fu; Cisca Wijmenga; Alexandra Zhernakova; Eran Elinav; Eran Segal
29489753|j|Nature
29489753|y|2018
29489753|a|Human gut microbiome composition is shaped by multiple factors but the relative contribution of host genetics remains elusive. Here we examine genotype and microbiome data from 1,046 healthy individuals with several distinct ancestral origins who share a relatively common environment, and demonstrate that the gut microbiome is not significantly associated with genetic ancestry, and that host genetics have a minor role in determining microbiome composition. We show that, by contrast, there are significant similarities in the compositions of the microbiomes of genetically unrelated individuals who share a household, and that over 20% of the inter-person microbiome variability is associated with factors related to diet, drugs and anthropometric measurements. We further demonstrate that microbiome data significantly improve the prediction accuracy for many human traits, such as glucose and obesity measures, compared to models that use only host genetic and environmental data. These results suggest that microbiome alterations aimed at improving clinical outcomes may be carried out across diverse genetic backgrounds.


34518605|t|Altered fecal microbiota composition in individuals who abuse methamphetamine.
34518605|w|Yongde Yang; Xuan Yu; Xuebing Liu; Guangya Liu; Kuan Zeng; Gang Wang
34518605|j|Scientific reports
34518605|y|2021
34518605|a|As a severe public health problem, methamphetamine (METH) abuse places a heavy burden on families and society. A growing amount of evidence has indicated communication between gut microbiota and the CNS in drug addiction, with associations to neural, endocrine and immune pathways. Thus, we searched for alterations in the gut microbiota and their potential effects in METH users through 16S rRNA gene sequencing. A decreased Shannon index indicated lower bacterial diversity in the METH users than in the age-matched control group. The gut microbial community composition in the METH users was also altered, including reductions in Deltaproteobacteria and Bacteroidaceae abundances and increases in Sphingomonadales, Xanthomonadales, Romboutsia and Lachnospiraceae abundances. Moreover, the Fusobacteria abundance was correlated with the duration of METH use. Enterobacteriaceae, Ruminococcaceae, Bacteroides, and Faecalibacterium had statistically significant correlations with items related to the positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia and to general psychopathology in the METH users, and all have previously been reported to be altered in individuals with psychotic syndromes, especially depression. Abstraction, one of the items of the cognitive assessment, was positively related to Blautia. These findings revealed alterations in the gut microbiota of METH users, and these alterations may play a role in psychotic syndrome and cognitive impairment. Although the mechanisms behind the links between these disorders and METH abuse are unknown, the relationships may indicate similarities in the pathogenesis of psychosis induced by METH abuse and other causes, providing a new paradigm for addiction and METH use disorder treatment.


38694913|t|Current and further outlook on the protective potential of <i>Antrodia camphorata</i> against neurological disorders.
38694913|w|Weiling Li; Pin Wan; Jialu Qiao; Yuchen Liu; Qian Peng; Zehua Zhang; Xiji Shu; Yiyuan Xia; Binlian Sun
38694913|j|Frontiers in pharmacology
38694913|y|2024
38694913|a|Prevalent neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and stroke are increasingly becoming a global burden as society ages. It is well-known that degeneration and loss of neurons are the fundamental underlying processes, but there are still no effective therapies for these neurological diseases. In recent years, plenty of studies have focused on the pharmacology and feasibility of natural products as new strategies for the development of drugs that target neurological disorders. <i>Antrodia camphorata</i> has become one of the most promising candidates, and the crude extracts and some active metabolites of it have been reported to play various pharmacological activities to alleviate neurological symptoms at cellular and molecular levels. This review highlights the current evidence of <i>Antrodia camphorata</i> against neurological disorders, including safety evaluation, metabolism, blood-brain barrier penetration, neuroprotective activities, and the potential on regulating the gut-microbiome-brain axis. Furthermore, potential strategies to resolve problematic issues identified in previous studies are also discussed. We aim to provide an overview for the ongoing development and utilization of <i>Antrodia camphorata</i> in cerebral neuropathology.


32130662|t|Current Perspectives on Gut Microbiome Dysbiosis and Depression.
32130662|w|Alexander Capuco; Ivan Urits; Jamal Hasoon; Rebecca Chun; Brittany Gerald; Jason K Wang; Hisham Kassem; Anh L Ngo; Alaa Abd-Elsayed; Thomas Simopoulos; Alan D Kaye; Omar Viswanath
32130662|j|Advances in therapy
32130662|y|2020
32130662|a|The human gut microbiome partakes in a bidirectional communication pathway with the central nervous system (CNS), named the microbiota-gut-brain axis. The microbiota-gut-brain axis is believed to modulate various central processes through the vagus nerve as well as production of microbial metabolites and immune mediators which trigger changes in neurotransmission, neuroinflammation, and behavior. Little is understood about the utilization of microbiome manipulation to treat disease. Though studies exploring the role of the microbiome in various disease processes have shown promise, mechanisms remain unclear and evidence-based treatments for most illnesses have not yet been developed. The animal studies reviewed here offer an excellent array of basic science research that continues to clarify mechanisms by which the microbiome may affect mental health. More evidence is needed, particularly as it relates to translating this work to human subjects. The studies presented in this paper largely demonstrate encouraging results in the treatment of depression. Limitations include small sample sizes and heterogeneous methodology. The exact mechanism by which the gut microbiota causes or alters neuropsychiatric disease states is not fully understood. In this review, we focus on recent studies investigating the relationship between gut microbiome dysbiosis and the pathogenesis of depression. This article is based on previously conducted studies and does not contain any studies with human participants or animals performed by any of the authors.


36516898|t|Effects of molecular hydrogen intervention on the gut microbiome in methamphetamine abusers with mental disorder.
36516898|w|Yong Wang; Mengmeng Wang; Bing Xie; Di Wen; Wenbo Li; Meiqi Zhou; Xintao Wang; Yun Lu; Bin Cong; Zhiyu Ni; Chunling Ma
36516898|j|Brain research bulletin
36516898|y|2023
36516898|a|Methamphetamine (METH) is a potent and highly addictive psychostimulant and one of the most widely used illicit drugs, the abuse of which has become a severe public health problem worldwide. A growing amount of evidence has indicated potential connections between gut microbiota and mental disorders induced by METH and associations with neural and metabolic pathways. The present study aimed to explore the relationship between fecal microbial alterations and neuropsychiatric diseases in METH addictions. Thus, mental disorders and gut microbial alterations were analyzed by self-rating depression (SDS) and anxiety (SAS) scales and 16 S rRNA gene sequencing, respectively. Our results showed that increased SDS and SAS indices and decreased alpha diversity indicated more serious mental disorders and lower bacterial diversity in METH users than in the age-matched healthy control group. The gut microbial composition in female METH users was also significantly altered, with reductions in hydrogen-producing bacteria, including Bacteroides and Roseburia. Molecular hydrogen (H<sub>2</sub>) is spontaneously produced by intestinal bacteria in the process of anaerobic metabolism, which is the main pathway for H<sub>2</sub> production in vivo. Numerous studies have shown that hydrogen intervention can significantly improve neuropsychiatric diseases, including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Our results showed that hydrogen intervention, including drinking and inhaling, significantly alleviated mental disorders induced by METH abuse, and the inhalation of hydrogen also altered gut microbiota profiles in the METH abusers. These results suggest that hydrogen intervention has potential therapeutic applicability in the treatment of mental disorders in METH abusers.


37808915|t|Characterization of gut microbiota profile in Iranian patients with bipolar disorder compared to healthy controls.
37808915|w|Nassir Rashnaei; Abbas Akhavan Sepahi; Seyed Davar Siadat; Esmaeil Shahsavand-Ananloo; Golnaz Bahramali
37808915|j|Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology
37808915|y|2023
37808915|a|The human gut microbiota plays a crucial role in mental health through the gut-brain axis, impacting central nervous system functions, behavior, mood, and anxiety. Consequently, it is implicated in the development of neuropsychiatric disorders. This study aimed to assess and compare the gut microbiota profiles and populations of individuals with bipolar disorder and healthy individuals in Iran. Fecal samples were collected from 60 participants, including 30 bipolar patients (BPs) and 30 healthy controls (HCs), following rigorous entry criteria. Real-time quantitative PCR was utilized to evaluate the abundance of 10 bacterial genera/species and five bacterial phyla. Notably, <i>Actinobacteria</i> and <i>Lactobacillus</i> exhibited the greatest fold change in BPs compared to HCs at the phylum and genus level, respectively, among the bacteria with significant population differences. <i>Ruminococcus</i> emerged as the most abundant genus in both groups, while <i>Proteobacteria</i> and <i>Bacteroidetes</i> showed the highest abundance in BPs and HCs, respectively, at the phylum level. Importantly, our investigation revealed a lower <i>Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes</i> ratio, potentially serving as a health indicator, in HCs compared to BPs. This study marks the first examination of an Iranian population and provides compelling evidence of significant differences in gut microbiota composition between BPs and HCs, suggesting a potential link between brain functions and the gut microbial profile and population.


34488774|t|Transcriptomics reveal different metabolic strategies for acid resistance and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) production in select Levilactobacillus brevis strains.
34488774|w|Sagarika Banerjee; Matthew Poore; Svetlana Gerdes; Derek Nedveck; Lene Lauridsen; Heidi Thomsen Kristensen; Henrik Max Jensen; Phillip M Byrd; Arthur C Ouwehand; Elaine Patterson; Wesley Morovic
34488774|j|Microbial cell factories
34488774|y|2021
34488774|a|Of the many neurotransmitters in humans, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) shows potential for improving several mental health indications such as stress and anxiety. The microbiota-gut-brain axis is an important pathway for GABAergic effects, as microbially-secreted GABA within the gut can affect host mental health outcomes. Understanding the molecular characteristics of GABA production by microbes within the gut can offer insight to novel therapies for mental health. Three strains of Levilactobacillus brevis with syntenous glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) operons were evaluated for overall growth, glutamate utilization, and GABA production in typical synthetic growth media supplemented with monosodium glutamate (MSG). Levilactobacillus brevis Lbr-6108™ (Lbr-6108), formerly known as L. brevis DPC 6108, and Levilactobacillus brevis Lbr-35 ™ (Lbr-35) had similar growth profiles but differed significantly in GABA secretion and acid resistance. Lbr-6108 produced GABA early within the growth phase and produced significantly more GABA than Lbr-35 and the type strain Levilactobacillus brevis ATCC 14869 after the stationary phase. The global gene expression during GABA production at several timepoints was determined by RNA sequencing. The GAD operon, responsible for GABA production and secretion, activated in Lbr-6108 after only 6 h of fermentation and continued throughout the stationary phase. Furthermore, Lbr-6108 activated many different acid resistance mechanisms concurrently, which contribute to acid tolerance and energy production. In contrast, Lbr-35, which has a genetically similar GAD operon, including two copies of the GAD gene, showed no upregulation of the GAD operon, even when cultured with MSG. This study is the first to evaluate whole transcriptome changes in Levilactobacillus brevis during GABA production in different growth phases. The concurrent expression of multiple acid-resistance mechanisms reveals niche-specific metabolic functionality between common human commensals and highlights the complex regulation of GABA metabolism in this important microbial species. Furthermore, the increased and rapid GABA production of Lbr-6108 highlights the strain's potential as a therapeutic and the overall value of screening microbes for effector molecule output.


36353491|t|Gut microbiome and human health: Exploring how the probiotic genus <i>Lactobacillus</i> modulate immune responses.
36353491|w|Sonakshi Rastogi; Aditi Singh
36353491|j|Frontiers in pharmacology
36353491|y|2022
36353491|a|The highest density of microbes resides in human gastrointestinal tract, known as "Gut microbiome". Of note, the members of the genus <i>Lactobacillus</i> that belong to phyla Firmicutes are the most important probiotic bacteria of the gut microbiome. These gut-residing <i>Lactobacillus</i> species not only communicate with each other but also with the gut epithelial lining to balance the gut barrier integrity, mucosal barrier defence and ameliorate the host immune responses. The human body suffers from several inflammatory diseases affecting the gut, lungs, heart, bone or neural tissues. Mounting evidence supports the significant role of <i>Lactobacillus</i> spp. and their components (such as metabolites, peptidoglycans, and/or surface proteins) in modulatingimmune responses, primarily through exchange of immunological signals between gastrointestinal tract and distant organs. This bidirectional crosstalk which is mediated by <i>Lactobacillus</i> spp. promotes anti-inflammatory response, thereby supporting the improvement of symptoms pertaining to asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), neuroinflammatory diseases (such as multiple sclerosis, alzheimer's disease, parkinson's disease), cardiovascular diseases, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and chronic infections in patients. The metabolic disorders, obesity and diabetes are characterized by a low-grade inflammation. Genus <i>Lactobacillus</i> alleviates metabolic disorders by regulating the oxidative stress response and inflammatory pathways. Osteoporosis is also associated with bone inflammation and resorption. The <i>Lactobacillus</i> spp. and their metabolites act as powerful immune cell controllers and exhibit a regulatory role in bone resorption and formation, supporting bone health. Thus, this review demonstrated the mechanisms and summarized the evidence of the benefit of <i>Lactobacillus</i> spp. in alleviating inflammatory diseases pertaining to different organs from animal and clinical trials. The present narrative review explores in detail the complex interactions between the gut-dwelling <i>Lactobacillus</i> spp. and the immune components in distant organs to promote host's health.


31327219|t|Parkinson's Disease: The Emerging Role of Gut Dysbiosis, Antibiotics, Probiotics, and Fecal Microbiota Transplantation.
31327219|w|Sudhir K Dutta; Sandeep Verma; Vardhmaan Jain; Balarama K Surapaneni; Rakesh Vinayek; Laila Phillips; Padmanabhan P Nair
31327219|j|Journal of neurogastroenterology and motility
31327219|y|2019
31327219|a|The role of the microbiome in health and human disease has emerged at the forefront of medicine in the 21st century. Over the last 2 decades evidence has emerged to suggest that inflammation-derived oxidative damage and cytokine induced toxicity may play a significant role in the neuronal damage associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). Presence of pro-inflammatory cytokines and T cell infiltration has been observed in the brain parenchyma of patients with PD. Furthermore, evidence for inflammatory changes has been reported in the enteric nervous system, the vagus nerve branches and glial cells. The presence of α-synuclein deposits in the post-mortem brain biopsy in patients with PD has further substantiated the role of inflammation in PD. It has been suggested that the α-synuclein misfolding might begin in the gut and spread "prion like" via the vagus nerve into lower brainstem and ultimately to the midbrain; this is known as the Braak hypothesis. It is noteworthy that the presence of gastrointestinal symptoms (constipation, dysphagia, and hypersalivation), altered gut microbiota and leaky gut have been observed in PD patients several years prior to the clinical onset of the disease. These clinical observations have been supported by in vitro studies in mice as well, demonstrating the role of genetic (α-synuclein overexpression) and environmental (gut dysbiosis) factors in the pathogenesis of PD. The restoration of the gut microbiome in patients with PD may alter the clinical progression of PD and this alteration can be accomplished by carefully designed studies using customized probiotics and fecal microbiota transplantation.


38203294|t|Molecular Mechanisms of Neuroprotection by Ketone Bodies and Ketogenic Diet in Cerebral Ischemia and Neurodegenerative Diseases.
38203294|w|Jiwon Jang; Su Rim Kim; Jo Eun Lee; Seoyeon Lee; Hyeong Jig Son; Wonchae Choe; Kyung-Sik Yoon; Sung Soo Kim; Eui-Ju Yeo; Insug Kang
38203294|j|International journal of molecular sciences
38203294|y|2023
38203294|a|Ketone bodies (KBs), such as acetoacetate and β-hydroxybutyrate, serve as crucial alternative energy sources during glucose deficiency. KBs, generated through ketogenesis in the liver, are metabolized into acetyl-CoA in extrahepatic tissues, entering the tricarboxylic acid cycle and electron transport chain for ATP production. Reduced glucose metabolism and mitochondrial dysfunction correlate with increased neuronal death and brain damage during cerebral ischemia and neurodegeneration. Both KBs and the ketogenic diet (KD) demonstrate neuroprotective effects by orchestrating various cellular processes through metabolic and signaling functions. They enhance mitochondrial function, mitigate oxidative stress and apoptosis, and regulate epigenetic and post-translational modifications of histones and non-histone proteins. Additionally, KBs and KD contribute to reducing neuroinflammation and modulating autophagy, neurotransmission systems, and gut microbiome. This review aims to explore the current understanding of the molecular mechanisms underpinning the neuroprotective effects of KBs and KD against brain damage in cerebral ischemia and neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.


35996352|t|Probiotics supplementation and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF): a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
35996352|w|Fereshteh Dehghani; Shima Abdollahi; Farzad Shidfar; Cain C T Clark; Sepideh Soltani
35996352|j|Nutritional neuroscience
35996352|y|2023
35996352|a|An emerging body of evidence has demonstrated the beneficial effects of probiotics on various mental health conditions. In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we sought to examine the effects of probiotics supplementation on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in adults. PubMed, Scopus, ISI Web of Science, and the Cochrane Library were searched, from database inception to April 2021, for eligible randomized controlled trials (RCTs). We pooled mean differences and standard deviations from RCTs using random-effect models. Overall, meta-analysis of 11 trials (<i>n</i> = 648 participants) showed no significant changes in serum level of BDNF following probiotics. However, subgroup analysis revealed that probiotics increased BDNF levels in individuals suffering from neurological disorders (<i>n</i> = 214 participants; WMD = 3.08 ng/mL, 95% CI: 1.83, 4.34; <i>P</i> = 0.001; <i>I</i><sup>2 </sup>= 7.5%; P-heterogeneity 0.34), or depression (<i>n</i> = 268 participants; WMD = 0.77 ng/mL, 95% CI: 0.07, 1.47; <i>P</i> = 0.032; <i>I</i><sup>2 </sup>= 88.4%; P-heterogeneity < 0.001). Furthermore, a significant increase in BDNF levels was found in studies that administered the mixture of <i>Lactobacillus</i> and <i>Bifidobacterium genera</i>, and were conducted in Asia . Our main findings suggest that probiotics may be effective in elevating BDNF levels in patients with depression and neurological disorders, and a mixed of <i>Lactobacillus</i> and <i>Bifidobacterium</i> appear to show greater efficacy than the single genus supplement. The low quality of evidence reduces clinical advocacy, and indicates that more large-scale, high-quality, RCTs are needed to facilitate reliable conclusions.


33005148|t|Sensitivity to Morphine Reward Associates With Gut Dysbiosis in Rats With Morphine-Induced Conditioned Place Preference.
33005148|w|Jingyuan Zhang; Jun Yang; Cheng Yang; Ti Chen; Ziwei Wang; Junyi Li; Fanglin Qin; Qijian Deng; Xiaojie Zhang
33005148|j|Frontiers in psychiatry
33005148|y|2020
33005148|a|Gut microbiota has been found to establish a bidirectional relationship with the central nervous system. Variations of the gut microbiota has been implicated in various mental disorders, including opioid use disorders. Morphine exposure has been repeatedly found to disrupt the gut microbiota, but association between the gut microbiota and the sensitivity to morphine reward remains unknown. In this study the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm was used for morphine-treated rats and saline-treated rats. After the CPP procedure, the morphine-treated rats were divided equally into the low and high CPP (L- and H-CPP) groups according to the CPP scores. We adopted 16S rRNA sequencing for the fecal bacterial communities at baseline and post-conditioning. By comparing the morphine-treated group with saline-treated group, we found alterations of microbial composition in the morphine-treated group, but no significant differences in alpha diversity. The L-CPP group and H-CPP group differed in microbial composition both before and after morphine treatment. The relative abundance of certain taxa was correlated to the CPP scores, such as <i>Alloprevotella</i> and <i>Romboutsia</i>. This study provides direct evidence that morphine exposure alters the composition of the gut microbiota in rats and that microbial alterations are correlated to the sensitivity to morphine reward. These findings may help develop novel therapeutic and preventive strategies for opioid use disorder.


37232729|t|The Effect of Probiotic Supplementation on the Gut-Brain Axis in Psychiatric Patients.
37232729|w|Hussein Sabit; Areej Kassab; Donia Alaa; Shaza Mohamed; Shaimaa Abdel-Ghany; Mohamed Mansy; Osama A Said; Mona A Khalifa; Halah Hafiz; Asmaa M Abushady
37232729|j|Current issues in molecular biology
37232729|y|2023
37232729|a|The pathophysiology of several psychiatric diseases may entail disturbances in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and metabolic pathways. Variations in how these effects present themselves may be connected to individual variances in clinical symptoms and treatment responses, such as the observation that a significant fraction of participants do not respond to current antipsychotic drugs. A bidirectional signaling pathway between the central nervous system and the gastrointestinal tract is known as the microbiota-gut-brain axis. The large and small intestines contain more than 100 trillion microbial cells, contributing to the intestinal ecosystem's incredible complexity. Interactions between the microbiota and intestinal epithelium can alter brain physiology and affect mood and behavior. There has recently been a focus on how these relationships impact mental health. According to evidence, intestinal microbiota may play a role in neurological and mental illnesses. Intestinal metabolites of microbial origin, such as short-chain fatty acids, tryptophan metabolites, and bacterial components that might stimulate the host's immune system, are mentioned in this review. We aim to shed some on the growing role of gut microbiota in inducing/manipulating several psychiatric disorders, which may pave the way for novel microbiota-based therapies.


33035575|t|Psychedelics as a novel approach to treating autoimmune conditions.
33035575|w|Caitlin Thompson; Attila Szabo
33035575|j|Immunology letters
33035575|y|2020
33035575|a|With a rise in the incidence of autoimmune diseases (AiD), health care providers continue to seek out more efficacious treatment approaches for the AiD patient population. Classic serotonergic psychedelics have recently been gaining public and professional interest as novel interventions to a number of mental health afflictions. Psychedelics have also been shown to be able to modulate immune functions, however, while there has been great interest to researching into their psychotherapeutic applications, there has so far been very little exploration into the potential to treat inflammatory and immune-related diseases with these compounds. A handful of studies from a variety of fields suggest that psychedelics do indeed have effects in the body that may attenuate the outcome of AiD. This literature review explores existing evidence that psychedelic compounds may offer a potential novel application in the treatment of pathologies related to autoimmunity. We propose that psychedelics hold the potential to attenuate or even resolve autoimmunity by targeting psychosomatic origins, maladaptive chronic stress responses, inflammatory pathways, immune modulation and enteric microbiome populations.


38170072|t|Global scientific trends in healthy aging in the early 21st century: A data-driven scientometric and visualized analysis.
38170072|w|Ye Zhang; Zhengmin Gu; Yingxin Xu; Miao He; Ben S Gerber; Zhongqing Wang; Feifan Liu; Cheng Peng
38170072|j|Heliyon
38170072|y|2024
38170072|a|According to the World Health Organization (WHO), healthy aging is the process of developing and maintaining the functional capacity for health in old age. A rapidly growing number of research studies on healthy aging have been conducted worldwide. The purpose of this research work is to explore global scientific landscape of healthy aging research over the last 22 years. Scientific publications on healthy aging from January 1, 2000 to October 11, 2022 were retrieved from the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC) on October 11, 2022. A total of 6420 publications were included in the scientometric analysis. VOSviewer (1.6.18) was used to conduct scientometric and visualized analysis. The publication growth rate was 35.68 from 2000 to 2021. The United States of America (USA) led in both productivity and citations. <i>PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA</i> was prominent in terms of both the highest citation count and the highest average citation count. The National Institute on Aging (NIA) and Evans, Michele K. were the most influential organization and author, respectively. Research hotspots in healthy aging were identified based on the co-occurrence analysis of keywords: (1) physical activity and mental health of older adults; (2) diseases impacting the health and lifespan of older adults; and (3) neuroscience. Our analysis indicates that gut microbiota, loneliness, frailty, mitochondria and resilience were the emerging themes in healthy aging research. The quantity of annual publications on healthy aging has rapidly increased over the past 22 years, especially during 2018-2021. This analysis identified the status, trends, hot topics, and frontiers of healthy aging research. These findings will help researchers quickly understand the global representation of healthy aging research, influence resource dissemination, promote international collaborations, guide policy formulation, and improve health services for older adults.


33287416|t|Bacterial Metabolites of Human Gut Microbiota Correlating with Depression.
33287416|w|Olga V Averina; Yana A Zorkina; Roman A Yunes; Alexey S Kovtun; Valeriya M Ushakova; Anna Y Morozova; George P Kostyuk; Valery N Danilenko; Vladimir P Chekhonin
33287416|j|International journal of molecular sciences
33287416|y|2020
33287416|a|Depression is a global threat to mental health that affects around 264 million people worldwide. Despite the considerable evolution in our understanding of the pathophysiology of depression, no reliable biomarkers that have contributed to objective diagnoses and clinical therapy currently exist. The discovery of the microbiota-gut-brain axis induced scientists to study the role of gut microbiota (GM) in the pathogenesis of depression. Over the last decade, many of studies were conducted in this field. The productions of metabolites and compounds with neuroactive and immunomodulatory properties among mechanisms such as the mediating effects of the GM on the brain, have been identified. This comprehensive review was focused on low molecular weight compounds implicated in depression as potential products of the GM. The other possible mechanisms of GM involvement in depression were presented, as well as changes in the composition of the microbiota of patients with depression. In conclusion, the therapeutic potential of functional foods and psychobiotics in relieving depression were considered. The described biomarkers associated with GM could potentially enhance the diagnostic criteria for depressive disorders in clinical practice and represent a potential future diagnostic tool based on metagenomic technologies for assessing the development of depressive disorders.


30890906|t|Common miRNA Patterns of Alzheimer's Disease and Parkinson's Disease and Their Putative Impact on Commensal Gut Microbiota.
30890906|w|Charlotte Hewel; Julia Kaiser; Anna Wierczeiko; Jan Linke; Christoph Reinhardt; Kristina Endres; Susanne Gerber
30890906|j|Frontiers in neuroscience
30890906|y|2019
30890906|a|With the rise of Next-Generation-Sequencing (NGS) methods, Micro-RNAs (miRNAs) have achieved an important position in the research landscape and have been found to present valuable diagnostic tools in various diseases such as multiple sclerosis or lung cancer. There is also emerging evidence that miRNAs play an important role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) or Parkinson's disease (PD). Apparently, these diseases come along with changes in miRNA expression patterns which led to attempts from researchers to use these small RNA species from several body fluids for a better diagnosis and in order to observe disease progression. Additionally, it became evident that microbial commensals might play an important role for pathology development and were shown to have a significantly different composition in patients suffering from neurodegeneration compared with healthy controls. As it could recently be shown that secreted miRNAs are able to enter microbial organisms, it is conceivable that the host's miRNA might affect the gut microbial ecosystem. As such, miRNAs may inherit a central role in shaping the "diseased microbiome" and thereby mutually act on the characteristics of these neurodegenerative diseases. We have therefore (1) compiled a list of miRNAs known to be associated with AD and/or PD, (2) performed an <i>in silico</i> target screen for binding sites of these miRNA on human gut metagenome sequences and (3) evaluated the hit list for interesting matches potentially relevant to the etiology of AD and or PD. The examination of protein identifiers connected to bacterial secretion system, lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis and biofilm formation revealed an overlap of 37 bacterial proteins that were targeted by human miRNAs. The identified links of miRNAs to the biological processes of bacteria connected to AD and PD have yet to be validated via <i>in vivo</i> experiments. However, our results show a promising new approach for understanding aspects of these neurodegenerative diseases in light of the regulation of the microbiome.


32504503|t|Dysregulation of the Gut-Brain Axis, Dysbiosis and Influence of Numerous Factors on Gut Microbiota Associated Parkinson's Disease.
32504503|w|Gagandeep Kaur; Tapan Behl; Simona Bungau; Arun Kumar; Md Sahab Uddin; Vineet Mehta; Gokhan Zengin; Bijo Mathew; Muhammad Ajmal Shah; Sandeep Arora
32504503|j|Current neuropharmacology
32504503|y|2021
32504503|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) has been one of the substantial social, medical concerns and, burdens of the present time. PD is a gradually devastating neurodegenerative disorder of the neurological function marked with α-synucleinopathy affecting numerous regions of the brain-gut axis, as well as the central, enteric, and autonomic nervous system. Its etiology is a widely disputed topic. This review emphasizes to find out the correlation among the microbial composition and the observable disturbances in the metabolites of the microbial species and its impact on the immune response, which may have a concrete implication on the occurrence, persistence and, pathophysiology of PD via the gut-brain axis. An in-depth research and the database was developed from the available peer-reviewed articles to date (March 2020) utilizing numerous search engines like PubMed, MEDLINE and, other internet sources. Progressively increasing shreds of evidence have proved the fact that dysbiosis in the gut microbiome plays a central role in many neurological disorders, such as PD. Indeed, a disordered microbiome-gut-brain axis in PD could be focused on gastrointestinal afflictions that manifest primarily several years prior to the diagnosis, authenticating a concept wherein the pathological pathway progresses from the intestine reaching the brain. The microbiota greatly affects the bidirectional interaction between the brain and the gut via synchronized neurological, immunological, and neuroendocrine mechanisms. It can be concluded that a multitude of factors discussed in this review steadily induce the onset of dysbacteriosis that may exacerbate the etiologic mechanism of Parkinson's disease.


37867494|t|Exploring the gut microbiota: lifestyle choices, disease associations, and personal genomics.
37867494|w|Sharlize Pedroza Matute; Sasitaran Iyavoo
37867494|j|Frontiers in nutrition
37867494|y|2023
37867494|a|The gut microbiota is a rich and dynamic ecosystem that actively interacts with the human body, playing a significant role in the state of health and disease of the host. Diet, exercise, mental health, and other factors have exhibited the ability to influence the gut bacterial composition, leading to changes that can prevent and improve, or favor and worsen, both intestinal and extra-intestinal conditions. Altered gut microbial states, or 'dysbiosis', associated with conditions and diseases are often characterized by shifts in bacterial abundance and diversity, including an impaired <i>Firmicutes</i> to <i>Bacteroidetes</i> ratio. By understanding the effect of lifestyle on the gut microbiota, personalized advice can be generated to suit each individual profile and foster the adoption of lifestyle changes that can both prevent and ameliorate dysbiosis. The delivery of effective and reliable advice, however, depends not only on the available research and current understanding of the topic, but also on the methods used to assess individuals and to discover the associations, which can introduce bias at multiple stages. The aim of this review is to summarize how human gut microbial variability is defined and what lifestyle choices and diseases have shown association with gut bacterial composition. Furthermore, popular methods to investigate the human gut microbiota are outlined, with a focus on the possible bias caused by the lack of use of standardized methods. Finally, an overview of the current state of personalized advice based on gut microbiota testing is presented, underlining its power and limitations.


35892042|t|Marked shifts in gut microbial structure and neurotransmitter metabolism in fresh inmates revealed a close link between gut microbiota and mental health: A case-controlled study.
35892042|w|Yunfeng Duan; Xiaoli Wu; Yanan Yang; Liuqi Gu; Li Liu; Yunfeng Yang; Jizhong Zhou; Chongming Wu; Feng Jin
35892042|j|International journal of clinical and health psychology : IJCHP
35892042|y|2022
35892042|a|The gut microbiota plays a pivotal role in psychological health, but the mechanistic perspective between gut microbiome and mental health remains poorly understood. The present case-controlled study recruited 30 unimprisoned subjects and 31 inmates that had been detained in jail for no more than a month. The mental health status, gut microbiota and blood NH3, H2S, 5-hydroxy trptamine and dopamine levels were measured. Compared with unimprisoned controls, the fresh inmates exhibited significantly higher scores on anxiety and depression. Both phylogenetic structure and functional genes of the gut microbiota markedly shifted in inmates. Inmates was more <i>Bacteroides</i>-dominated, while unimprisoned subjects were more <i>Prevotella</i>-dominated. Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs)-producing genera were largely decreased in inmates and were negatively related to mental disorder scores, while Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria were positive to anxiety and depression scores. Simultaneously, the inmates possessed reduced genes that participate in amino acids, carbohydrates and vitamin cofactors metabolism, but enriched genes that involved in the neurotransmitter-producing Shikimate pathway. Correlation analysis revealed that <i>Anaerotruncus</i> and <i>Prevotella</i> were negative to depression score, and <i>Enterococcus</i> was negative to anxiety score. Our results revealed potential link between gut microbiota and mental health, leading further support to the microbiota-gut-brain axis theory.


35345829|t|Curcumin Alleviates DSS-Induced Anxiety-Like Behaviors via the Microbial-Brain-Gut Axis.
35345829|w|Fan Zhang; Yanlin Zhou; Haitao Chen; Hao Jiang; Feini Zhou; Bin Lv; Maosheng Xu
35345829|j|Oxidative medicine and cellular longevity
35345829|y|2022
35345829|a|The anxiety and depression caused by inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are known to greatly affect the mental health of patients. The mechanism of psychiatric disorders caused by IBD is not fully understood. Previous research has suggested that the gut microbiome plays a key role in IBD. Curcumin is a yellow polyphenol extracted from the rhizome of the ginger plant, which has been shown to have effects against both depression and anxiety. Research has indicated that curcumin affects the gut microbiome and exerts antianxiety and neuroprotective effects through the microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGB). However, whether curcumin can alleviate the psychiatric disorders caused by IBD and how curcumin affects the MGB axis through the gut microbiota have not been fully understood. Therefore, this study was aimed at determining the metabolic parameters and microbiological environment in the peripheral and central nervous system to determine the effects of curcumin against anxiety induced by dextran sulfate sodium salt (DSS) in mice. To elaborate on the link between the gut microbiota and how curcumin alleviates anxiety-like behaviors, we performed a fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) experiment. The results suggested that curcumin can effectively relieve anxiety-like behaviors caused by DSS in mice. Further, curcumin treatment can alleviate disturbances in the gut microbiota and systemic disorders of lipid metabolism caused by DSS. Finally, through FMT, we verified that curcumin increased phosphatidylcholine in the prefrontal cortex of the mice and alleviated DSS-induced anxiety-like behaviors by modulating specific gut microbiota. We also revealed that <i>Muribaculaceae</i> may be a key part of the gut microbiota for curcumin to alleviate DSS-induced anxiety-like behaviors through the MGB axis.


35582476|t|Convergent pathways of the gut microbiota-brain axis and neurodegenerative disorders.
35582476|w|Carolina Gubert; Juciano Gasparotto; Livia H Morais
35582476|j|Gastroenterology report
35582476|y|2022
35582476|a|Recent research has been uncovering the role of the gut microbiota for brain health and disease. These studies highlight the role of gut microbiota on regulating brain function and behavior through immune, metabolic, and neuronal pathways. In this review we provide an overview of the gut microbiota axis pathways to lay the groundwork for upcoming sessions on the links between the gut microbiota and neurogenerative disorders. We also discuss how the gut microbiota may act as an intermediate factor between the host and the environment to mediate disease onset and neuropathology. Based on the current literature, we further examine the potential for different microbiota-based therapeutic strategies to prevent, to modify, or to halt the progress of neurodegeneration.


36231182|t|Biodiversity Effects on Human Mental Health via Microbiota Alterations.
36231182|w|Yee Sang Wong; Nicholas John Osborne
36231182|j|International journal of environmental research and public health
36231182|y|2022
36231182|a|The biodiversity hypothesis postulates that the natural environment positively affects human physical and mental health. We evaluate the latest evidence and propose new tools to examine the halobiont environment. We chose to target our review at neuropsychiatric disorders, including depression, anxiety, autism, dementia, multiple sclerosis, etc. because a green prescription (exposure to green spaces) was shown to benefit patients with neuropsychiatric disorders. Specifically, our review consists of three mini reviews on the associations exploring: (1) ecological biodiversity and human microbiota; (2) human microbiota and neuropsychiatric disorders; (3) ecological biodiversity and neuropsychiatric disorders. We conclude that the environment could directly transfer microbes to humans and that human studies support the gut microbiota as part of the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders. Overall, the results from the three mini reviews consistently support the biodiversity hypothesis. These findings demonstrated the plausibility of biodiversity exerting mental health effects through biophysiological mechanisms instead of psychological mechanisms alone. The idea can be further tested with novel biodiversity measurements and research on the effects of a green prescription.


35745252|t|The Untapped Potential of Ginsenosides and American Ginseng Berry in Promoting Mental Health via the Gut-Brain Axis.
35745252|w|Tristan St-Laurent; Riadh Hammami
35745252|j|Nutrients
35745252|y|2022
35745252|a|Despite the popularity of the ginseng (<i>Panax</i>) root in health research and on the market, the ginseng berry's potential remains relatively unexplored. Implementing ginseng berry cultivations and designing berry-derived products could improve the accessibility to mental health-promoting nutraceuticals. Indeed, the berry could have a higher concentration of neuroprotective and antidepressant compounds than the root, which has already been the subject of research demonstrating its efficacy in the context of neuroprotection and mental health. In this review, data on the berry's application in supporting mental health via the gut-brain axis is compiled and discussed.


35966709|t|Gut microbiota dysbiosis: The potential mechanisms by which alcohol disrupts gut and brain functions.
35966709|w|Ganggang Chen; Fenglei Shi; Wei Yin; Yao Guo; Anru Liu; Jiacheng Shuai; Jinhao Sun
35966709|j|Frontiers in microbiology
35966709|y|2022
35966709|a|Alcohol use disorder (AUD) is a high-risk psychiatric disorder and a key cause of death and disability in individuals. In the development of AUD, there is a connection known as the microbiota-gut-brain axis, where alcohol use disrupts the gut barrier, resulting in changes in intestinal permeability as well as the gut microbiota composition, which in turn impairs brain function and worsens the patient's mental status and gut activity. Potential mechanisms are explored by which alcohol alters gut and brain function through the effects of the gut microbiota and their metabolites on immune and inflammatory pathways. Alcohol and microbiota dysregulation regulating neurotransmitter release, including DA, 5-HT, and GABA, are also discussed. Thus, based on the above discussion, it is possible to speculate on the gut microbiota as an underlying target for the treatment of diseases associated with alcohol addiction. This review will focus more on how alcohol and gut microbiota affect the structure and function of the gut and brain, specific changes in the composition of the gut microbiota, and some measures to mitigate the changes caused by alcohol exposure. This leads to a potential intervention for alcohol addiction through fecal microbiota transplantation, which could normalize the disruption of gut microbiota after AUD.


34654024|t|Associations Between the Gut Microbiota and Internalizing Behaviors in Preschool Children.
34654024|w|Marcel van de Wouw; Yanan Wang; Matthew L Workentine; Elnaz Vaghef-Mehrabani; Deborah Dewey; Raylene A Reimer; Lianne Tomfohr-Madsen; Gerald F Giesbrecht
34654024|j|Psychosomatic medicine
34654024|y|2022
34654024|a|Emerging evidence points toward a connection between mental health and the gut microbiota and its metabolites (e.g., short-chain fatty acids). It is unknown whether the gut microbiota is associated with the development of mental health problems (e.g., internalizing or externalizing behaviors) in preschool children. The objective of this study was to evaluate associations between the gut microbiota and internalizing and externalizing behaviors in preschool-aged children. A community sample of 248 typically developing children (3-5 years of age) provided a stool sample for gut microbiota and SCFA analysis. Parents reported child internalizing and externalizing behaviors using the Child Behavior Checklist. Associations between child behaviors and gut microbiota measures were analyzed using Spearman correlations followed by an adjustment for multiple testing, with subanalysis conducted in children clinically "at risk" for behavioral problems compared with those who were not. There was a correlation between Shannon alpha diversity with internalizing behaviors (rs = -0.134, p = .035) and its subscale somatic complaints (rs = -0.144, p = .023). In addition, children clinically "at risk" for internalizing problems had decreased alpha diversity (U = 551, p = .017). Internalizing behaviors correlated with valerate and isobutyrate (rs = -0.147, p = .021; rs = -0.140, p = .028, respectively). Furthermore the somatic complaints subscale additionally correlated with acetate and butyrate (rs = -0.219, p = .001; rs = -0.241, p < .001, respectively). These findings were also present in children "at risk" for internalizing problems (U = 569, p = .026; U = 571, p = .028) and somatic complaints (U = 164, p = .004; U = 145, p = .001). These analyses reveal novel associations between internalizing behaviors and the gut microbiota in preschool children. Furthermore, a relationship between somatic complaints and acetate and butyrate was identified, indicating that interventions that increase SCFA production warrant future investigation.


36211431|t|Maternal gut microbiota during pregnancy and the composition of immune cells in infancy.
36211431|w|Yuan Gao; Martin O'Hely; Thomas P Quinn; Anne-Louise Ponsonby; Leonard C Harrison; Hanne Frøkiær; Mimi L K Tang; Susanne Brix; Karsten Kristiansen; Dave Burgner; Richard Saffery; Sarath Ranganathan; Fiona Collier; Peter Vuillermin
36211431|j|Frontiers in immunology
36211431|y|2022
36211431|a|Preclinical studies have shown that maternal gut microbiota during pregnancy play a key role in prenatal immune development but the relevance of these findings to humans is unknown. The aim of this prebirth cohort study was to investigate the association between the maternal gut microbiota in pregnancy and the composition of the infant's cord and peripheral blood immune cells over the first year of life. The Barwon Infant Study cohort (<i>n</i>=1074 infants) was recruited using an unselected sampling frame. Maternal fecal samples were collected at 36 weeks of pregnancy and flow cytometry was conducted on cord/peripheral blood collected at birth, 6 and 12 months of age. Among a randomly selected sub-cohort with available samples (<i>n</i>=293), maternal gut microbiota was characterized by sequencing the 16S rRNA V4 region. Operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were clustered based on their abundance. Associations between maternal fecal microbiota clusters and infant granulocyte, monocyte and lymphocyte subsets were explored using compositional data analysis. Partial least squares (PLS) and regression models were used to investigate the relationships/associations between environmental, maternal and infant factors, and OTU clusters. We identified six clusters of co-occurring OTUs. The first two components in the PLS regression explained 39% and 33% of the covariance between the maternal prenatal OTU clusters and immune cell populations in offspring at birth. A cluster in which <i>Dialister, Escherichia</i>, and <i>Ruminococcus</i> were predominant was associated with a lower proportion of granulocytes (<i>p</i>=0.002), and higher proportions of both central naïve CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells (CD4<sup>+</sup>/CD45RA<sup>+</sup>/CD31<sup>-</sup>) (<i>p</i><0.001) and naïve regulatory T cells (Treg) (CD4<sup>+</sup>/CD45RA<sup>+</sup>/FoxP3<sup>low</sup>) (<i>p</i>=0.02) in cord blood. The association with central naïve CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells persisted to 12 months of age. This birth cohort study provides evidence consistent with past preclinical models that the maternal gut microbiota during pregnancy plays a role in shaping the composition of innate and adaptive elements of the infant's immune system following birth.


35456813|t|The Gut Microbiome May Help Address Mental Health Disparities in Hispanics: A Narrative Review.
35456813|w|Fernando Vera-Urbina; María F Dos Santos-Torres; Filipa Godoy-Vitorino; Bianca A Torres-Hernández
35456813|j|Microorganisms
35456813|y|2022
35456813|a|The gut-brain axis is the biological connection between the enteric and the central nervous systems. Given the expansion of the microbial sciences with the new human microbiome field facilitated by the decrease in sequencing costs, we now know more about the role of gut microbiota in human health. In this short review, particular focus is given to the gut-brain axis and its role in psychiatric diseases such as anxiety and depression. Additionally, factors that contribute to changes in the gut-brain axis, including the gut microbiome, nutrition, the host's genome, and ethnic difference, are highlighted. Emphasis is given to the lack of studies on Hispanic populations, despite the fact this ethnic group has a higher prevalence of anxiety and depression in the US.


36139496|t|Multi-Strain Probiotic Mixture Affects Brain Morphology and Resting State Brain Function in Healthy Subjects: An RCT.
36139496|w|Julia Rode; Hanna M T Edebol Carlman; Julia König; Ashley N Hutchinson; Per Thunberg; Jonas Persson; Robert J Brummer
36139496|j|Cells
36139496|y|2022
36139496|a|Probiotics can alter brain function via the gut-brain axis. We investigated the effect of a probiotic mixture containing <i>Bifidobacterium longum</i>, <i>Lactobacillus helveticus</i> and <i>Lactiplantibacillus plantarum</i>. In a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded crossover design, 22 healthy subjects (6 m/16 f; 24.2 ± 3.4 years) underwent four-week intervention periods with probiotics and placebo, separated by a four-week washout period. Voxel-based morphometry indicated that the probiotic intervention affected the gray matter volume of a cluster covering the left supramarginal gyrus and superior parietal lobule (<i>p</i> < 0.0001), two regions that were also among those with an altered resting state functional connectivity. Probiotic intervention resulted in significant (FDR < 0.05) functional connectivity changes between regions within the default mode, salience, frontoparietal as well as the language network and several regions located outside these networks. Psychological symptoms trended towards improvement after probiotic intervention, i.e., the total score of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (<i>p</i> = 0.056) and its depression sub-score (<i>p</i> = 0.093), as well as sleep patterns (<i>p</i> = 0.058). The probiotic intervention evoked distinct changes in brain morphology and resting state brain function alongside slight improvements of psycho(bio)logical markers of the gut-brain axis. The combination of those parameters may provide new insights into the modes of action by which gut microbiota can affect gut-brain communication and hence brain function.


35050172|t|Gut Microbiota Metabolites in Major Depressive Disorder-Deep Insights into Their Pathophysiological Role and Potential Translational Applications.
35050172|w|Miguel A Ortega; Miguel Angel Alvarez-Mon; Cielo García-Montero; Oscar Fraile-Martinez; Luis G Guijarro; Guillermo Lahera; Jorge Monserrat; Paula Valls; Fernando Mora; Roberto Rodríguez-Jiménez; Javier Quintero; Melchor Álvarez-Mon
35050172|j|Metabolites
35050172|y|2022
35050172|a|The gut microbiota is a complex and dynamic ecosystem essential for the proper functioning of the organism, affecting the health and disease status of the individuals. There is continuous and bidirectional communication between gut microbiota and the host, conforming to a unique entity known as "holobiont". Among these crosstalk mechanisms, the gut microbiota synthesizes a broad spectrum of bioactive compounds or metabolites which exert pleiotropic effects on the human organism. Many of these microbial metabolites can cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) or have significant effects on the brain, playing a key role in the so-called microbiota-gut-brain axis. An altered microbiota-gut-brain (MGB) axis is a major characteristic of many neuropsychiatric disorders, including major depressive disorder (MDD). Significative differences between gut eubiosis and dysbiosis in mental disorders like MDD with their different metabolite composition and concentrations are being discussed. In the present review, the main microbial metabolites (short-chain fatty acids -SCFAs-, bile acids, amino acids, tryptophan -trp- derivatives, and more), their signaling pathways and functions will be summarized to explain part of MDD pathophysiology. Conclusions from promising translational approaches related to microbial metabolome will be addressed in more depth to discuss their possible clinical value in the management of MDD patients.


36570854|t|Reviewing the role of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of depression and exploring new therapeutic options.
36570854|w|Wenjie Han; Na Wang; Mengzhen Han; Meng Ban; Tao Sun; Junnan Xu
36570854|j|Frontiers in neuroscience
36570854|y|2022
36570854|a|The relationship between gut microbiota (GM) and mental health is one of the focuses of psychobiology research. In recent years, the microbial-gut-brain axis (MGBA) concept has gradually formed about this bidirectional communication between gut and brain. But how the GM is involved in regulating brain function and how they affect emotional disorders these mechanisms are tenuous and limited to animal research, and often controversial. Therefore, in this review, we attempt to summarize and categorize the latest advances in current research on the mechanisms of GM and depression to provide valid information for future diagnoses and therapy of mental disorders. Finally, we introduced some antidepressant regimens that can help restore gut dysbiosis, including classic antidepressants, Chinese materia medica (CMM), diet, and exogenous strains. These studies provide further insight into GM's role and potential pathways in emotion-related diseases, which holds essential possible clinical outcomes for people with depression or related psychiatric disorders. Future research should focus on clarifying the causal role of GM in disease and developing microbial targets, applying these findings to the prevention and treatment of depression.


37118092|t|Intermittent fasting protects against Alzheimer's disease in mice by altering metabolism through remodeling of the gut microbiota.
37118092|w|Rui-Yuan Pan; Jing Zhang; Jinlei Wang; Yingyi Wang; Zhihui Li; Yang Liao; Yajin Liao; Chenggang Zhang; Zhiqiang Liu; Lijuan Song; Jiezhong Yu; Zengqiang Yuan
37118092|j|Nature aging
37118092|y|2022
37118092|a|Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia without effective clinical treatment. Here, we show that intermittent fasting (IF) improves cognitive functions and AD-like pathology in a transgenic AD mouse model (5XFAD). IF alters gut microbial composition with a significant enrichment in probiotics such as Lactobacillus. The changes in the composition of the gut microbiota affect metabolic activities and metabolite production. Metabolomic profiling analysis of cecal contents revealed IF leads to a decreased carbohydrate metabolism (for example, glucose) and an increased abundance in amino acids (for example, sarcosine and dimethylglycine). Interestingly, we found that the administration of IF-elevated sarcosine or dimethylglycine mimics the protective effects of IF in 5XFAD mice, including the amelioration of cognitive decline, amyloid-β (Aβ) burden and glial overactivation. Our findings thus demonstrate an IF regimen is a potential approach to prevent AD progression, at least through the gut-microbiota-metabolites-brain axis, and constitutes an innovative AD therapeutic avenue.


36440396|t|A genetic association study reveals the relationship between the oral microbiome and anxiety and depression symptoms.
36440396|w|Chun'e Li; Yujing Chen; Yan Wen; Yumeng Jia; Shiqiang Cheng; Li Liu; Huijie Zhang; Chuyu Pan; Jingxi Zhang; Zhen Zhang; Xuena Yang; Peilin Meng; Yao Yao; Feng Zhang
36440396|j|Frontiers in psychiatry
36440396|y|2022
36440396|a|Growing evidence supports that alterations in the gut microbiota play an essential role in the etiology of anxiety, depression, and other psychiatric disorders. However, the potential effect of oral microbiota on mental health has received little attention. Using the latest genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary data of the oral microbiome, polygenic risk scores (PRSs) of 285 salivary microbiomes and 309 tongue dorsum microbiomes were conducted. Logistic and linear regression models were applied to evaluate the relationship between salivary-tongue dorsum microbiome interactions with anxiety and depression. Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) was utilized to compute the causal effects between the oral microbiome, anxiety, and depression. We observed significant salivary-tongue dorsum microbiome interactions related to anxiety and depression traits. Significantly, one common interaction was observed to be associated with both anxiety score and depression score, <i>Centipeda periodontii SGB 224</i> × <i>Granulicatella uSGB 3289</i> (P <sub>depressionscore</sub> = 1.41 × 10<sup>-8</sup>, P <sub>anxietyscore</sub> = 5.10 × 10<sup>-8</sup>). Furthermore, we detected causal effects between the oral microbiome and anxiety and depression. Importantly, we identified one salivary microbiome associated with both anxiety and depression in both the UKB database and the Finngen public database, <i>Eggerthia</i> (P <sub>IVW - majordepression - UKB</sub> = 2.99 × 10<sup>-6</sup>, P <sub>IVW - Self - reportedanxiety/panicattacks - UKB</sub> = 3.06 × 10<sup>-59</sup>, P <sub>IVW - depression - Finngen</sub> = 3.16 × 10 <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mrow></mrow> <mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow> <mrow><mo>-</mo> <mn>16</mn></mrow> </msubsup> </math> P <sub>IVW - anxiety - Finngen</sub> = 1.14 × 10<sup>-115</sup>). This study systematically explored the relationship between the oral microbiome and anxiety and depression, which could help improve our understanding of disease pathogenesis and propose new diagnostic targets and early intervention strategies.


36579574|t|The Potential Impact of Age on Gut Microbiota in Patients with Major Depressive Disorder: A Secondary Analysis of the Prospective Observational Study.
36579574|w|Katsuma Miyaho; Kenji Sanada; Shunya Kurokawa; Arisa Tanaka; Tomoyuki Tachibana; Chiharu Ishii; Yoshihiro Noda; Shinichiro Nakajima; Shinji Fukuda; Masaru Mimura; Taishiro Kishimoto; Akira Iwanami
36579574|j|Journal of personalized medicine
36579574|y|2022
36579574|a|We aimed to investigate the impact of aging on the relationship among the composition of gut microbiota, gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms, and the course of treatment for major depressive disorder (MDD) by analyzing the datasets from our previous study. Patients with MDD were recruited, and their stools were collected at three time points (baseline, midterm, and endpoint) following the usual antidepressant treatment. Gut microbiota were analyzed using 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Patients were categorized into two groups based on their age: the late-life group over 60 years and the middle-aged group under 60 years. GI symptoms were assessed with scores of item 11 of the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale. One hundred and ninety samples were collected from 32 patients with MDD. Several gut microbes had higher relative abundances in the late-life group than in the middle-aged group. In addition, the late-life group showed significantly higher diversity in the Chao1 index at baseline compared with the middle-aged group. We further found possible microbial taxa related to GI symptoms in patients with late-life depression. The abundance of several bacterial taxa may contribute to GI symptoms in the late-life depression, and our findings suggest that the therapeutic targets for the application of gut microbiota may differ depending on the age group of patients with depression.


36079050|t|Intestinal Permeability and Depression in Patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease.
36079050|w|Miorita Melina Iordache; Cristina Tocia; Mariana Aschie; Andrei Dumitru; Mihaela Manea; Georgeta Camelia Cozaru; Lucian Petcu; Sabina E Vlad; Eugen Dumitru; Anca Chisoi
36079050|j|Journal of clinical medicine
36079050|y|2022
36079050|a|Depression is a global health problem that requires an early and accurate diagnosis to ensure quick access to appropriate treatment. Among multiple psychopathological paths, recent attention has focused on analysing the brain-gut-microbiota axis. The intestinal barrier plays a key role, and dysfunctions occurring at this level have implications for mental health. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of intestinal permeability biomarkers, i.e., calprotectin, zonulin, lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) and intestinal fatty acid-binding protein (I-FAB), in relation to depression in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). This is the first study of this kind taking place in Romania, Eastern Europe, with an emphasis on patients with Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. The correlations identified between depression and calprotectin and depression and LBP have the potential to shed light on the process of rapid diagnosis of depression with the help of biomarkers. Since depression is correlated with a decrease in the quality of life in patients with IBD, the need for access to appropriate treatments must be urgent.


36056826|t|Microbiome-Based Therapies in Parkinson's Disease: Can Tuning the Microbiota Become a Viable Therapeutic Strategy?
36056826|w|Adejoke Y Onaolapo; Folusho O Ojo; Anthony T Olofinnade; Joshua Falade; Ismail A Lawal; Olakunle J Onaolapo
36056826|j|CNS & neurological disorders drug targets
36056826|y|2022
36056826|a|Progressive neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD) have continued to baffle medical science, despite strides in the understanding of their pathology. The inability of currently available therapies to halt disease progression is a testament to an incomplete understanding of pathways crucial to disease initiation, progression and management. Science has continued to link the activities and equilibrium of the gut microbiome to the health and proper functioning of brain neurons. They also continue to stir interest in the potential applications of technologies that may shift the balance of the gut microbiome towards achieving a favourable outcome in PD management. There have been suggestions that an improved understanding of the roles of the gut microbiota is likely to lead to the emergence of an era where their manipulation becomes a recognized strategy for PD management. This review examines the current state of our journey in the quest to understand how the gut microbiota can influence several aspects of PD. We highlight the relationship between the gut microbiome/microbiota and PD pathogenesis, as well as preclinical and clinical evidence evaluating the effect of postbiotics, probiotics and prebiotics in PD management. This is with a view to ascertaining if we are at the threshold of discovering the application of a usable tool in our quest for disease modifying therapies in PD.


35466109|t|Effects of Subdiaphragmatic Vagotomy in the MPTP-induced Neurotoxicity in the Striatum and Colon of Mice.
35466109|w|Jiajing Shan; Youge Qu; Jiancheng Zhang; Li Ma; Kenji Hashimoto
35466109|j|Clinical psychopharmacology and neuroscience : the official scientific journal of the Korean College of Neuropsychopharmacology
35466109|y|2022
35466109|a|Gut-microbiota-brain axis plays a role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). The subdiaphragmatic vagus nerve serves as a major modulatory pathway between the gut microbiota and the brain. However, the role of subdiaphragmatic vagus nerve in PD pathogenesis are unknown. Here, we investigated the effects of subdiaphragmatic vagotomy (SDV) on the neurotoxicity in the mouse striatum and colon after administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6- tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Sham or SVD was performed. Subsequently, saline or MPTP (10 mg/kg × 3, 2-hour interval) was administered to mice. Western blot analysis of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter (DAT) in the striatum and phosphorylated α-synuclein (p-α-Syn) in the colon was performed. Repeated administration of MPTP significantly caused reduction of TH and DAT in the striatum and increase of p-α-Syn in the colon of mice. However, SDV did not affect the reduction of TH and DAT in the striatum and increases in p-α-Syn in the colon after repeated MPTP administration. These data suggest that subdiaphragmatic vagus nerve doses not play a role in the MPTP-induced neurotoxicity in the brain and colon.


36356994|t|Application of probiotics, prebiotics and synbiotics in patients with breast cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis protocol for randomised controlled trials.
36356994|w|Dan Duan; Maojun Chen; Wenyao Cui; Wenjie Liu; Xinrong Chen
36356994|j|BMJ open
36356994|y|2022
36356994|a|Breast cancer has become a common tumour that threatens women's physical and mental health. Microbial agents play an important role in maintaining the balance of gut microbiota and modulating intestinal immunity, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. Available evidence points to a strong association between them and breast cancer. However, there has been no systematic review of the effects of microbial agents in patients with breast cancer. This protocol aims to explore the effectiveness and safety of probiotics, prebiotics and synbiotics in patients with breast cancer. We will search the following electronic databases for relevant randomised controlled trials: PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Library and Web of Science. Grey literature and reference lists of original studies will also be searched to avoid omissions. We will use the Cochrane Collaboration's Risk of Bias tool to assess the quality of the included studies. The primary outcomes include patients' arm oedema volume, changes in gut microbiota composition and anthropometric parameters. Two independent reviewers will perform literature screening, data extraction and risk of bias assessment. Data synthesis will be performed using descriptive analysis or meta-analysis. The quality of the evidence for each outcome will be assessed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation tool. The data for systematic reviews are derived from published original studies and do not require review and approval by the ethics committee. The results will be disseminated through a peer-reviewed journal and conferences. CRD42022311502.


36437993|t|Effect of human probiotics on memory, psychological and biological measures in elderly: A study protocol of bi-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial (CleverAge Biota).
36437993|w|Ales Bartos; Josefina Weinerova; Sofia Diondet; Karel Vales
36437993|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
36437993|y|2022
36437993|a|Gut microbiota may influence brain functions. Therefore, we prepared a study protocol for a double-blind, crossover, randomized clinical trial to determine the complex effects of human probiotics on memory, psychological, and biological measures in the elderly. We selected eligible participants using an effective electronic questionnaire containing the inclusion and exclusion criteria and a brief electronic cognitive test. One-third of the respondents with the worst cognitive scores on the electronic test are randomized to group A, starting with a 3-month probiotic intervention, and to group B, starting with a placebo. In a crossover design, both groups change their intervention/placebo status after 3 months for the next 3 months. Participants refusing longer personal assessments due to the COVID-19 pandemic were randomly allocated to one of two subgroups assessed online. Participants in both groups are matched in age, education, gender, and cognitive scores on electronic testing at baseline. At three time points, participants are assessed using a neuropsychological battery, self-report measures of mood, a physical fitness test, blood, urine, and stool samples, and actigraphy. A subset of participants also provided their biological samples and underwent the neuropsychological battery in an extended testing phase 3 months after study termination to find out the long-term effect of the intervention. This is the first trial to address the comprehensive effects of human probiotics on memory and many other measures in the elderly. We assume that the probiotic group will have better outcomes than the placebo group after the first and second trimesters. We expect that the probiotic effect will persist for the next 3 months. These study's findings will contribute to an interesting area of how to improve memory, psychological and biological and other factors naturally and will examine the importance of probiotics for overall health in the elderly. [clinicaltrials.gov], identifier [NCT05051501].


36235606|t|Circulating Levels of Short-Chain Fatty Acids during Pregnancy and Infant Neurodevelopment.
36235606|w|Carmen Hernández-Martínez; Josefa Canals; Núria Voltas; Francisco Martín-Luján; Victoria Arija
36235606|j|Nutrients
36235606|y|2022
36235606|a|Short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) play a key role in the gut microbiota-brain crosstalk regulating the main neurodevelopmental processes during pregnancy. The aim of this study is to investigate the longitudinal relationship between prenatal levels of the main SCFAs in maternal serum and infant cognitive development and temperament on day 40 postpartum after adjusting for several pre-, peri- and post-natal confounders. A sample of 357 healthy mother-infant pairs were followed from the beginning of pregnancy to 40 days after birth. Serum SCFA concentrations were assessed in the first and third trimester of pregnancy by LC-MS/MS; and socio-demographic, nutritional, and psychological variables were collected. At 40 days, the Bayley Scales of Infant Development-III and the Early Infancy Temperament Questionnaire were administered. Lower serum levels of acetic, butyric and isobutyric acid, mainly during the first trimester, were related to better language and psychomotor development and, in the case of butyric acid, better intensity behavior in infants. Medium levels of propionic acid were related to better scores for development, mood and temperament. These findings suggest that in a community sample of healthy pregnant women from a Mediterranean region of northern Spain, lower serum levels of SCFAs, especially in the first trimester of pregnancy, seem to be related to better infant neurodevelopment.


35918353|t|Investigation of memory-enhancing effects of Streptococcus thermophilus EG007 in mice and elucidating molecular and metagenomic characteristics using nanopore sequencing.
35918353|w|Hyaekang Kim; Soomin Jeon; Jina Kim; Donghyeok Seol; JinChul Jo; Seoae Cho; Heebal Kim
35918353|j|Scientific reports
35918353|y|2022
35918353|a|Over the past decades, accumulating evidences have highlighted the gut microbiota as a key player in the brain functioning via microbiota-gut-brain axis, and accordingly, the beneficial role of several probiotic strains in cognitive ability also have been actively investigated. However, the majority of the research have demonstrated the effects against age-related cognitive decline or neurological disease. To this end, we aimed to investigate lactic acid bacteria strains having beneficial effects on the cognitive function of healthy young mice and elucidate underlying characteristics by carrying out nanopore sequencing-based genomics and metagenomics analysis. 8-week consumption of Streptococcus thermophilus EG007 demonstrated marked enhancements in behavior tests assessing short-term spatial and non-spatial learning and memory. It was revealed that EG007 possessed genes encoding various metabolites beneficial for a health condition in many aspects, including gamma-aminobutyric acid producing system, a neurotransmitter associated with mood and stress response. Also, by utilizing 16S-23S rRNA operon as a taxonomic marker, we identified more accurate species-level compositional changes in gut microbiota, which was increase of certain species, previously reported to have associations with mental health or down-regulation of inflammation or infection-related species. Moreover, correlation analysis revealed that the EG007-mediated altered microbiota had a significant correlation with the memory traits.


35790976|t|The effects of polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) administration on the microbiome-gut-brain axis in adolescents with anorexia nervosa (the MiGBAN study): study protocol for a longitudinal, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
35790976|w|Lara Keller; Astrid Dempfle; Brigitte Dahmen; Samira Schreiber; Roger A H Adan; Nadia Andrea Andreani; Unna N Danner; Albrecht Eisert; Sergueï Fetissov; Florian Ph S Fischmeister; Andreas Karwautz; Kerstin Konrad; Karlijn L Kooij; Stefanie Trinh; Benny van der Vijgh; Annemarie A van Elburg; Michael Zeiler; John Baines; Jochen Seitz; Beate Herpertz-Dahlmann
35790976|j|Trials
35790976|y|2022
35790976|a|Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a severe psychiatric disease that often takes a chronic course due to insufficient treatment options. Emerging evidence on the gut-brain axis offers the opportunity to find innovative treatments for patients with psychiatric disorders. The gut microbiome of patients with AN shows profound alterations that do not completely disappear after weight rehabilitation. In previous studies, the administration of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) resulted in effects that might be beneficial in the treatment of AN, affecting the microbiome, body weight and executive functions. Therefore, the MiGBAN study aims to examine the effects of a nutritional supplementation with PUFA on the gut microbiome and body mass index (BMI) in patients with AN. This is a longitudinal, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Within 2 years, 60 adolescent patients aged 12 to 19 years with AN will receive either PUFA or placebo for 6 months additional to treatment as usual. After 1 year, the long-term effect of PUFA on the gut microbiome and consecutively on BMI will be determined. Secondary outcomes include improvement of gastrointestinal symptoms, eating disorder psychopathology, and comorbidities. Additionally, the interaction of the gut microbiome with the brain (microbiome-gut-brain axis) will be studied by conducting MRI measurements to assess functional and morphological changes and neuropsychological assessments to describe cognitive functioning. Anti-inflammatory effects of PUFA in AN will be examined via serum inflammation and gut permeability markers. Our hypothesis is that PUFA administration will have positive effects on the gut microbiota and thus the treatment of AN by leading to a faster weight gain and a reduction of gastrointestinal problems and eating disorder psychopathology. Due to previously heterogeneous results, a systematic and longitudinal investigation of the microbiome-gut-brain axis in AN is essential. The current trial aims to further analyse this promising research field to identify new, effective therapeutic tools that could help improve the treatment and quality of life of patients. If this trial is successful and PUFA supplementation contributes to beneficial microbiome changes and a better treatment outcome, their administration would be a readily applicable additional component of multimodal AN treatment. German Clinical Trials Register DRKS00017130 . Registered on 12 November 2019.


36364950|t|Exploration of the Gut-Brain Axis through Metabolomics Identifies Serum Propionic Acid Associated with Higher Cognitive Decline in Older Persons.
36364950|w|Jeanne Neuffer; Raúl González-Domínguez; Sophie Lefèvre-Arbogast; Dorrain Y Low; Bénédicte Driollet; Catherine Helmer; Andrea Du Preez; Chiara de Lucia; Silvie R Ruigrok; Barbara Altendorfer; Ludwig Aigner; Paul J Lucassen; Aniko Korosi; Sandrine Thuret; Claudine Manach; Mercè Pallàs; Mireia Urpi-Sardà; Alex Sánchez-Pla; Cristina Andres-Lacueva; Cécilia Samieri
36364950|j|Nutrients
36364950|y|2022
36364950|a|The gut microbiome is involved in nutrient metabolism and produces metabolites that, via the gut−brain axis, signal to the brain and influence cognition. Human studies have so far had limited success in identifying early metabolic alterations linked to cognitive aging, likely due to limitations in metabolite coverage or follow-ups. Older persons from the Three-City population-based cohort who had not been diagnosed with dementia at the time of blood sampling were included, and repeated measures of cognition over 12 subsequent years were collected. Using a targeted metabolomics platform, we identified 72 circulating gut-derived metabolites in a case−control study on cognitive decline, nested within the cohort (discovery n = 418; validation n = 420). Higher serum levels of propionic acid, a short-chain fatty acid, were associated with increased odds of cognitive decline (OR for 1 SD = 1.40 (95% CI 1.11, 1.75) for discovery and 1.26 (1.02, 1.55) for validation). Additional analyses suggested mediation by hypercholesterolemia and diabetes. Propionic acid strongly correlated with blood glucose (r = 0.79) and with intakes of meat and cheese (r > 0.15), but not fiber (r = 0.04), suggesting a minor role of prebiotic foods per se, but a possible link to processed foods, in which propionic acid is a common preservative. The adverse impact of propionic acid on metabolism and cognition deserves further investigation.


39201866|t|Contributions of Artificial Intelligence to Analysis of Gut Microbiota in Autism Spectrum Disorder: A Systematic Review.
39201866|w|Pau Climent-Pérez; Agustín Ernesto Martínez-González; Pedro Andreo-Martínez
39201866|j|Children (Basel, Switzerland)
39201866|y|2024
39201866|a|Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a highly heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorder whose etiology is not known today, but everything indicates that it is multifactorial. For example, genetic and epigenetic factors seem to be involved in the etiology of ASD. In recent years, there has been an increase in studies on the implications of gut microbiota (GM) on the behavior of children with ASD given that dysbiosis in GM may trigger the onset, development and progression of ASD through the microbiota-gut-brain axis. At the same time, significant progress has occurred in the development of artificial intelligence (AI). The aim of the present study was to perform a systematic review of articles using AI to analyze GM in individuals with ASD. In line with the PRISMA model, 12 articles using AI to analyze GM in ASD were selected. Outcomes reveal that the majority of relevant studies on this topic have been conducted in China (33.3%) and Italy (25%), followed by the Netherlands (16.6%), Mexico (16.6%) and South Korea (8.3%). The bacteria <i>Bifidobacterium</i> is the most relevant biomarker with regard to ASD. Although AI provides a very promising approach to data analysis, caution is needed to avoid the over-interpretation of preliminary findings. A first step must be taken to analyze GM in a representative general population and ASD samples in order to obtain a GM standard according to age, sex and country. Thus, more work is required to bridge the gap between AI in mental health research and clinical care in ASD.


39461950|t|Microbial biomarker discovery in Parkinson's disease through a network-based approach.
39461950|w|Zhe Zhao; Jing Chen; Danhua Zhao; Baoyu Chen; Qi Wang; Yuan Li; Junyi Chen; Chaobo Bai; Xintong Guo; Nan Hu; Bingwei Zhang; Rongsheng Zhao; Junliang Yuan
39461950|j|NPJ Parkinson's disease
39461950|y|2024
39461950|a|Associations between the gut microbiota and Parkinson's disease (PD) have been widely investigated. However, the replicable biomarkers for PD diagnosis across multiple populations remain elusive. Herein, we performed a meta-analysis to investigate the pivotal role of the gut microbiome in PD and its potential diagnostic implications. Six 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequence datasets from five independent studies were integrated, encompassing 550 PD and 456 healthy control samples. The analysis revealed significant alterations in microbial composition and alpha and beta diversity, emphasizing altered gut microbiota in PD. Specific microbial taxa, including Faecalibacterium, Roseburia, and Coprococcus_2, known as butyrate producers, were notably diminished in PD, potentially contributing to intestinal inflammation. Conversely, genera such as Akkermansia and Bilophila exhibited increased relative abundances. A network-based algorithm called NetMoss was utilized to identify potential biomarkers of PD. Afterwards, a classification model incorporating 11 optimized genera demonstrated high performance. Further functional analyses indicated enrichment in pathways related to neurodegeneration and metabolic pathways. These findings illuminate the intricate relationship between the gut microbiota and PD, offering insights into potential therapeutic interventions and personalized diagnostic strategies.


39200093|t|Should Pregnant Women Consume Probiotics to Combat Endocrine-Disrupting Chemical-Induced Health Risks to Their Unborn Offspring?
39200093|w|Cheryl S Rosenfeld
39200093|j|Biomedicines
39200093|y|2024
39200093|a|Endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) have become so pervasive in our environment and daily lives that it is impossible to avoid contact with such compounds, including pregnant women seeking to minimize exposures to themselves and their unborn children. Developmental exposure of humans and rodent models to bisphenol A (BPA) and other EDCs is linked to increased anxiogenic behaviors, learning and memory deficits, and decreased socio-sexual behaviors. Prenatal exposure to BPA and other EDCs leads to longstanding and harmful effects on gut microbiota with reductions in beneficial bacteria, i.e., gut dysbiosis, and such microbial changes are linked to host changes in fecal metabolites, including those involved in carbohydrate metabolism and synthesis, and neurobehavioral alterations in adulthood, in particular, social and cognitive deficits. Gut dysbiosis is increasingly being recognized as a key driver of a myriad of diseases, ranging from metabolic, cardiovascular, reproductive, and neurobehavioral disorders via the gut-microbiome-brain axis. Thus, EDCs might induce indirect effects on physical and mental health by acting as microbiome-disrupting chemicals. Findings raise the important question as to whether pregnant women should consume a probiotic supplement to mitigate pernicious effects of EDCs, especially BPA, on themselves and their unborn offspring. Current studies investigating the effects of maternal probiotic supplementation on pregnant women's health and that of their unborn offspring will be reviewed. Data will inform on the potential application of probiotic supplementation to reverse harmful effects of EDCs, especially BPA, in pregnant women unwittingly exposed to these compounds and striving to give their offspring the best start in life.


39293692|t|Depletion of the paternal gut microbiome alters sperm small RNAs and impacts offspring physiology and behavior in mice.
39293692|w|Bethany A Masson; Pamudika Kiridena; Da Lu; Elizabeth A Kleeman; Sonali N Reisinger; Wendy Qin; William J Davies; Rikeish R Muralitharan; Hamdi A Jama; Simona Antonacci; Francine Z Marques; Carolina Gubert; Anthony J Hannan
39293692|j|Brain, behavior, and immunity
39293692|y|2024
39293692|a|The paternal environment prior to conception has been demonstrated to influence offspring physiology and behavior, with the sperm epigenome (including noncoding RNAs) proposed as a potential facilitator of non-genetic inheritance. Whilst the maternal gut microbiome has been established as an important influence on offspring development, the impact of the paternal gut microbiome on offspring development, health and behavior is largely unknown. Gut microbiota have major influences on immunity, and thus we hypothesized that they may be relevant to paternal immune activation (PIA) modulating epigenetic inheritance in mice. Therefore, male C57BL/6J mice (F0) were orally administered non-absorbable antibiotics via drinking water in order to substantially deplete their gut microbiome. Four weeks after administration of the antibiotics (gut microbiome depletion), F0 male mice were then mated with naïve female mice. The F1 offspring of the microbiome-depleted males had reduced body weight as well as altered gut morphology (shortened colon length). F1 females showed significant alterations in affective behaviors, including measures of anxiety and depressive-like behaviors, indicating altered development. Analysis of small noncoding RNAs in the sperm of F0 mice revealed that gut microbiome depletion is associated with differential expression of 8 different PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs), each of which has the potential to modulate the expression of multiple downstream gene targets, and thus influence epigenetic inheritance and offspring development. This study demonstrates that the gut-germline axis influences sperm small RNA profiles and offspring physiology, with specific impacts on offspring affective and/or coping behaviors. These findings may have broader implications for other animal species with comparable gut microbiota, intergenerational epigenetics and developmental biology, including humans.


39134294|t|Agmatine modulation of gut-brain axis alleviates dysbiosis-induced depression-like behavior in rats.
39134294|w|Sandip Rahangdale; Pankaj Deshmukh; Shivkumar Sammeta; Manish Aglawe; Mayur Kale; Milind Umekar; Nandkishor Kotagale; Brijesh Taksande
39134294|j|European journal of pharmacology
39134294|y|2024
39134294|a|Depression is a global health concern affecting nearly 280 million individuals. It not only imposes a significant burden on economies and healthcare systems but also manifests complex physiological connections and consequences. Agmatine, a putative neuromodulator derived primarily from beneficial gut microbes specially Lactobacillus, has emerged as a potential therapeutic agent for mental health. The microbiota-gut-brain axis is involved in the development of depression through the peripheral nervous system, endocrine system, and immune system and may be a key factor in the effect of agmatine. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the potential mechanism of agmatine in antibiotic-induced dysbiosis and depression-like behavior in rats, focusing on its modulation of the gut-brain axis. Depression-like behavior associated with dysbiosis was induced through a seven-day regimen of the broad-spectrum antibiotic, comprising ampicillin and metronidazole and validated through microbial, biochemical, and behavioral alterations. On day 8, antibiotic-treated rats exhibited loose fecal consistency, altered fecal microbiota, and depression-like behavior in forced swim test. Pro-inflammatory cytokines were elevated, while agmatine and monoamine levels decreased in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Antibiotic administration disrupted tight junction proteins in the ileum, affecting gut architecture. Oral administration of agmatine alone or combined with probiotics significantly reversed antibiotic-induced dysbiosis, restoring gut microbiota and mitigating depression-like behaviors. This intervention also restored neuro-inflammatory markers, increased agmatine and monoamine levels, and preserved gut integrity. The study highlights the regulatory role of endogenous agmatine in the gut-brain axis in broad-spectrum antibiotic induced dysbiosis and associated depression-like behavior.


39316970|t|Christensenella minuta mitigates behavioral and cardiometabolic hallmarks of social defeat stress.
39316970|w|A Agusti; G V Molina-Mendoza; M Tamayo; V Rossini; M C Cenit; C Frances-Cuesta; V Tolosa-Enguis; E M Gómez Del Pulgar; A Flor-Duro; Y Sanz
39316970|j|Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie
39316970|y|2024
39316970|a|Psychological stress during early development and adolescence may increase the risk of psychiatric and cardiometabolic comorbidities in adulthood. The gut microbiota has been associated with mental health problems such as depression and anxiety and with cardiometabolic disease, but the potential role of the gut microbiota in their comorbidity is not well understood. We investigated the effects and mode of action of the intestinal bacterium Christensenella minuta DSM 32891 on stress-induced mental health and cardiometabolic disturbances in a mouse model of social defeat stress. We demonstrate that administered C. minuta alleviates chronic stress-induced depressive, anxiogenic and antisocial behavior. These effects are attributed to the bacterium's ability to modulate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, which mediates the stress response. This included the oversecretion of corticosterone and the overexpression of its receptors, as well as the metabolism of dopamine (DA) and the expression of its receptors (D1, D2L and D2S). Additionally, C. minuta administration reduced chronically induced inflammation in plasma, spleen and some brain areas, which likely contribute to the recovery of physical and behavioral function. Furthermore, C. minuta administration prevented chronic stress-induced cardiovascular damage by regulating key enzymes mediating liver fibrosis and oxidative stress. Finally, C. minuta increased the abundance of bacteria associated with mental health. Overall, our study highlights the potential of microbiota-directed interventions to alleviate both the physical and mental effects of chronic stress.


39422256|t|A gut-focused perinatal dietary intervention is associated with lower alpha diversity of the infant gut microbiota: results from a randomised controlled trial.
39422256|w|Samantha L Dawson; Gerard Clarke; Anne-Louise Ponsonby; Amy Loughman; Mohammadreza Mohebbi; Tiril Cecilie Borge; Adrienne O'Neil; Peter Vuillermin; Mimi L K Tang; Jeffrey M Craig; Felice N Jacka
39422256|j|Nutritional neuroscience
39422256|y|2024
39422256|a|In experimental models, the prenatal diet influences gut microbiota composition in mothers and offspring; however, it is unclear whether this occurs in humans. We investigated the effects of a gut-focused perinatal dietary intervention on maternal and infant gut microbiota composition four weeks after birth. This randomised controlled trial randomised pregnant women to receive dietary advice as part of standard care, or additionally receive a dietary intervention focused on the Australian Dietary Guidelines and increasing prebiotic and probiotic/fermented food intakes (ACTRN12616000936426). Study assessments occurred from gestation week 26 (baseline) to four weeks postpartum (follow-up). Faecal samples, collected at baseline for mothers, and follow-up for mothers and infants, underwent 16SrRNA sequencing. The primary outcome was a between-group mean difference in infant faecal Shannon index. Secondary outcomes included between-group differences in other microbiota measures, including maternal change from baseline CLR-transformed <i>Prevotella</i> abundance. Forty-four women and 45 infants completed the study. The mean Shannon index of infants in the intervention group was -0.35 (95% CI: -0.64, -0.06, SD: 0.52) units lower than control group infants, corresponding to a medium effect size (Cohen's D: -0.74, 95% CI: -1.34, -0.13). The findings were similar using other metrics of α-diversity. There were no between-group differences in β-diversity, nor any differentially abundant taxa in infants. The intervention increased abundances of the genus <i>Prevotella</i> in mothers compared to controls. This gut-focused perinatal dietary intervention was associated with differences in the maternal and infant gut microbiota composition. Larger studies are required to replicate and extend these findings.


31836471|t|Sodium butyrate causes α-synuclein degradation by an Atg5-dependent and PI3K/Akt/mTOR-related autophagy pathway.
31836471|w|Chen-Meng Qiao; Meng-Fei Sun; Xue-Bing Jia; Yun Shi; Bo-Ping Zhang; Zhi-Lan Zhou; Li-Ping Zhao; Chun Cui; Yan-Qin Shen
31836471|j|Experimental cell research
31836471|y|2020
31836471|a|Aggregation of α-Synuclein is central to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, these α-Synuclein inclusions are not only present in brain, but also in gut. Enteroendocrine cells (EECs), which are directly exposed to the gut lumen, can express α-Synuclein and directly connect to α-Synuclein-containing nerves. Dysbiosis of gut microbiota and microbial metabolite short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) has been implicated as a driver for PD. Butyrate is an SCFA produced by the gut microbiota. Our aim was to demonstrate how α-Synuclein expression in EECs responds to butyrate stimulation. Interestingly, we found that sodium butyrate (NaB) increases α-Synuclein mRNA expression, enhances Atg5-mediated autophagy (increased LC3B-II and decreased SQSTM1 (also known as p62) expression) in murine neuroendocrine STC-1 cells. Further, α-Synuclein mRNA was decreased by the inhibition of autophagy by using inhibitor bafilomycin A1 or by silencing Atg5 with siRNA. Moreover, the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway was significantly inhibited and cell apoptosis was activated by NaB. Conditioned media from NaB-stimulated STC-1 cells induced inflammation in SH-SY5Y cells. Collectively, NaB causes α-Synuclein degradation by an Atg5-dependent and PI3K/Akt/mTOR-related autophagy pathway.


34500451|t|Parkinson's Disease and Gut Microbiota.
34500451|w|Masaaki Hirayama; Kinji Ohno
34500451|j|Annals of nutrition & metabolism
34500451|y|2021
34500451|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is caused by abnormal aggregation of α-synuclein fibrils, called the Lewy bodies, in the central nervous system. Accumulating knowledge points to the notion that α-synuclein fibrils start from the dorsal vagal nucleus and ascend to the locus ceruleus and the substantia nigra (SN). Even in healthy elderly subjects without motor or cognitive impairment, α-synuclein fibrils are frequently observed in the brain and sometimes in the intestinal neural plexus. Enteroendocrine cells have a direct synapse to the vagal afferents, and the vagal nucleus has synaptic pathways to the SN and the striatum. Intestinal bacteria are likely to be involved in the formation of intestinal α-synuclein fibrils. A nonparametric meta-analysis of intestinal microbiota in PD in 5 countries, as well as scrutinization of the other reports from the other countries, indicates that mucin-degrading Akkermansia is increased in PD and that short-chain fatty acid (SCFA)-producing bacteria are decreased in PD. Both dysbiosis should increase the intestinal permeability, which subsequently facilitates exposure of the intestinal neural plexus to toxins like lipopolysaccharide and pesticide, which should lead to abnormal aggregation of α-synuclein fibrils. Decreased SCFA also downregulates regulatory T cells and fails to suppress neuronal inflammation. Key Messages: Therapeutic intervention may be able to be established against these mechanisms. Additional biochemical, cellular, and animal studies are required to further dissect the direct association between intestinal microbiota and PD.


34450312|t|The role of microbiota-gut-brain axis in neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders.
34450312|w|Katarzyna Socała; Urszula Doboszewska; Aleksandra Szopa; Anna Serefko; Marcin Włodarczyk; Anna Zielińska; Ewa Poleszak; Jakub Fichna; Piotr Wlaź
34450312|j|Pharmacological research
34450312|y|2021
34450312|a|Emerging evidence indicates that the gut microbiota play a crucial role in the bidirectional communication between the gut and the brain suggesting that the gut microbes may shape neural development, modulate neurotransmission and affect behavior, and thereby contribute to the pathogenesis and/or progression of many neurodevelopmental, neuropsychiatric, and neurological conditions. This review summarizes recent data on the role of microbiota-gut-brain axis in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders including depression, anxiety, schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorders, Parkinson's disease, migraine, and epilepsy. Also, the involvement of microbiota in gut disorders co-existing with neuropsychiatric conditions is highlighted. We discuss data from both in vivo preclinical experiments and clinical reports including: (1) studies in germ-free animals, (2) studies exploring the gut microbiota composition in animal models of diseases or in humans, (3) studies evaluating the effects of probiotic, prebiotic or antibiotic treatment as well as (4) the effects of fecal microbiota transplantation.


34784980|t|Fecal microbiota transplantation protects rotenone-induced Parkinson's disease mice via suppressing inflammation mediated by the lipopolysaccharide-TLR4 signaling pathway through the microbiota-gut-brain axis.
34784980|w|Zhe Zhao; Jingwen Ning; Xiu-Qi Bao; Meiyu Shang; Jingwei Ma; Gen Li; Dan Zhang
34784980|j|Microbiome
34784980|y|2021
34784980|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, displaying not only well-known motor deficits but also gastrointestinal dysfunctions. Consistently, it has been increasingly evident that gut microbiota affects the communication between the gut and the brain in PD pathogenesis, known as the microbiota-gut-brain axis. As an approach to re-establishing a normal microbiota community, fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) has exerted beneficial effects on PD in recent studies. Here, in this study, we established a chronic rotenone-induced PD mouse model to evaluate the protective effects of FMT treatment on PD and to explore the underlying mechanisms, which also proves the involvement of gut microbiota dysbiosis in PD pathogenesis via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. We demonstrated that gut microbiota dysbiosis induced by rotenone administration caused gastrointestinal function impairment and poor behavioral performances in the PD mice. Moreover, 16S RNA sequencing identified the increase of bacterial genera Akkermansia and Desulfovibrio in fecal samples of rotenone-induced mice. By contrast, FMT treatment remarkably restored the gut microbial community, thus ameliorating the gastrointestinal dysfunctions and the motor deficits of the PD mice. Further experiments revealed that FMT administration alleviated intestinal inflammation and barrier destruction, thus reducing the levels of systemic inflammation. Subsequently, FMT treatment attenuated blood-brain barrier (BBB) impairment and suppressed neuroinflammation in the substantia nigra (SN), which further decreased the damage of dopaminergic neurons. Additional mechanistic investigation discovered that FMT treatment reduced lipopolysaccharide (LPS) levels in the colon, the serum, and the SN, thereafter suppressing the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway and its downstream pro-inflammatory products both in the SN and the colon. Our current study demonstrates that FMT treatment can correct the gut microbiota dysbiosis and ameliorate the rotenone-induced PD mouse model, in which suppression of the inflammation mediated by the LPS-TLR4 signaling pathway both in the gut and the brain possibly plays a significant role. Further, we prove that rotenone-induced microbiota dysbiosis is involved in the genesis of PD via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Video abstract.


34942539|t|The gut microbiota-brain axis, psychobiotics and its influence on brain and behaviour: A systematic review.
34942539|w|Carmen Barrio; Samuel Arias-Sánchez; Isabel Martín-Monzón
34942539|j|Psychoneuroendocrinology
34942539|y|2022
34942539|a|The gut microbiota is the set of microorganisms present in the gut, and it is connected to the central nervous system via the gut-brain axis. Despite there is not a definitive description of the eubiotic microbiota architecture, numerous studies have demonstrated its involvement in human behaviour and its relationship with several pathologies. This is a systematic review about the association between dysbiosis on the gut microbiota and the presence of neurological or neuropsychiatric diseases such as cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, ADHD, and depression. Furthermore, this study analyzes the potential benefits of psychobiotics supplementation for these pathologies. Searches were conducted in the electronic databases PubMed and PsycINFO. 17 articles were included in this review, the majority were published after 2019. The results showed that gut dysbiosis predicts the development of these pathologies and influences their pathogenesis. In addition, it was found that different psychobiotics, mainly dietary fibers and probiotics of the Lactobacillus family, improved different cognitive functions such as cognitive performance and induce a reduced cortisol response. Improvement in different cognitive functions is possible when understanding gut microbiota-brain axis, enteric nervous system, neural-immune system, neuroendocrine system, and central nervous system's relationship.


33881598|t|Gastrointestinal dysfunction in Parkinson's disease: molecular pathology and implications of gut microbiome, probiotics, and fecal microbiota transplantation.
33881598|w|Vinod Metta; Valentina Leta; Kandadai Rukmini Mrudula; L K Prashanth; Vinay Goyal; Rupam Borgohain; Guy Chung-Faye; K Ray Chaudhuri
33881598|j|Journal of neurology
33881598|y|2022
33881598|a|Gastrointestinal symptoms and gut dysbiosis may occur before the onset of motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD). Prediagnostic and prodromal features, such as constipation and α-synuclein pathology, can be detected several years before the clinical diagnosis of PD and have the potential to develop as early PD biomarkers. Environmental toxins and gut dysbiosis may trigger oxidative stress and mucosal inflammation, and initiate α-synuclein accumulation in the enteric nervous system, early in PD. Chronic gut inflammation can lead to a leaky gut and systemic inflammation, neuro inflammation, and neuro degeneration via gut-vagus-brain signaling or through blood-brain barrier permeability. Concepts regarding the gut-brain signaling in PD pathogenesis are changing rapidly and more investigation is required. The gut microbiota interacts with the human body by modulating the enteric and central nervous systems, and immune activity. Understanding the immune responses between gut microbiota and human body might help in elucidating the PD pathogenesis. As changes in gut microbiota composition might be associated with different clinical phenotypes of PD, gut microbiota-modulating interventions, such as probiotics and fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), have the potential to restore the gut dysbiosis, reduce inflammation, and possibly modulate the clinical PD phenotype.


33905953|t|Potential roles of gut microbiota and microbial metabolites in Parkinson's disease.
33905953|w|Shen-Yuan Zheng; Hai-Xia Li; Rui-Chen Xu; Wen-Teng Miao; Ming-Yuan Dai; Song-Tao Ding; Han-Deng Liu
33905953|j|Ageing research reviews
33905953|y|2021
33905953|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complicated neurodegenerative disease attributed to multifactorial changes. However, its pathological mechanism remains undetermined. Accumulating evidence has revealed the emerging functions of gut microbiota and microbial metabolites, which can affect both the enteric nervous system and the central nervous system via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Accordingly, intestinal dysbiosis might be closely associated with PD. This review explores alterations to gut microbiota, correlations with clinical manifestations of PD, and briefly probes the underlying mechanisms. Next, the highly controversial roles of microbial metabolites including short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), H<sub>2</sub> and H<sub>2</sub>S are discussed. Finally, the pros and cons of the current treatments for PD, including those targeting microbiota, are assessed. Advancements in research techniques, further studies on levels of specific strains and longitudinal prospective clinical trials are urgently needed for the identification of early diagnostic markers and the development of novel therapeutic approaches for PD.


33557896|t|Relationships of gut microbiota, short-chain fatty acids, inflammation, and the gut barrier in Parkinson's disease.
33557896|w|Velma T E Aho; Madelyn C Houser; Pedro A B Pereira; Jianjun Chang; Knut Rudi; Lars Paulin; Vicki Hertzberg; Petri Auvinen; Malú G Tansey; Filip Scheperjans
33557896|j|Molecular neurodegeneration
33557896|y|2021
33557896|a|Previous studies have reported that gut microbiota, permeability, short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), and inflammation are altered in Parkinson's disease (PD), but how these factors are linked and how they contribute to disease processes and symptoms remains uncertain. This study sought to compare and identify associations among these factors in PD patients and controls to elucidate their interrelations and links to clinical manifestations of PD. Stool and plasma samples and clinical data were collected from 55 PD patients and 56 controls. Levels of stool SCFAs and stool and plasma inflammatory and permeability markers were compared between patients and controls and related to one another and to the gut microbiota. Calprotectin was increased and SCFAs decreased in stool in PD in a sex-dependent manner. Inflammatory markers in plasma and stool were neither intercorrelated nor strongly associated with SCFA levels. Age at PD onset was positively correlated with SCFAs and negatively correlated with CXCL8 and IL-1β in stool. Fecal zonulin correlated positively with fecal NGAL and negatively with PD motor and non-motor symptoms. Microbiota diversity and composition were linked to levels of SCFAs, inflammatory factors, and zonulin in stool. Certain relationships differed between patients and controls and by sex. Intestinal inflammatory responses and reductions in fecal SCFAs occur in PD, are related to the microbiota and to disease onset, and are not reflected in plasma inflammatory profiles. Some of these relationships are distinct in PD and are sex-dependent. This study revealed potential alterations in microbiota-host interactions and links between earlier PD onset and intestinal inflammatory responses and reduced SCFA levels, highlighting candidate molecules and pathways which may contribute to PD pathogenesis and clinical presentation and which warrant further investigation.


34707612|t|Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis and Epilepsy: A Review on Mechanisms and Potential Therapeutics.
34707612|w|Manqiu Ding; Yue Lang; Hang Shu; Jie Shao; Li Cui
34707612|j|Frontiers in immunology
34707612|y|2021
34707612|a|The gut-brain axis refers to the bidirectional communication between the gut and brain, and regulates intestinal homeostasis and the central nervous system <i>via</i> neural networks and neuroendocrine, immune, and inflammatory pathways. The development of sequencing technology has evidenced the key regulatory role of the gut microbiota in several neurological disorders, including Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and multiple sclerosis. Epilepsy is a complex disease with multiple risk factors that affect more than 50 million people worldwide; nearly 30% of patients with epilepsy cannot be controlled with drugs. Interestingly, patients with inflammatory bowel disease are more susceptible to epilepsy, and a ketogenic diet is an effective treatment for patients with intractable epilepsy. Based on these clinical facts, the role of the microbiome and the gut-brain axis in epilepsy cannot be ignored. In this review, we discuss the relationship between the gut microbiota and epilepsy, summarize the possible pathogenic mechanisms of epilepsy from the perspective of the microbiota gut-brain axis, and discuss novel therapies targeting the gut microbiota. A better understanding of the role of the microbiota in the gut-brain axis, especially the intestinal one, would help investigate the mechanism, diagnosis, prognosis evaluation, and treatment of intractable epilepsy.


33856024|t|The role of gut dysbiosis in Parkinson's disease: mechanistic insights and therapeutic options.
33856024|w|Qing Wang; Yuqi Luo; K Ray Chaudhuri; Richard Reynolds; Eng-King Tan; Sven Pettersson
33856024|j|Brain : a journal of neurology
33856024|y|2021
33856024|a|Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder in which gastrointestinal symptoms may appear prior to motor symptoms. The gut microbiota of patients with Parkinson's disease shows unique changes, which may be used as early biomarkers of disease. Alterations in the gut microbiota composition may be related to the cause or effect of motor or non-motor symptoms, but the specific pathogenic mechanisms are unclear. The gut microbiota and its metabolites have been suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease by regulating neuroinflammation, barrier function and neurotransmitter activity. There is bidirectional communication between the enteric nervous system and the CNS, and the microbiota-gut-brain axis may provide a pathway for the transmission of α-synuclein. We highlight recent discoveries about alterations to the gut microbiota in Parkinson's disease and focus on current mechanistic insights into the microbiota-gut-brain axis in disease pathophysiology. Moreover, we discuss the interactions between the production and transmission of α-synuclein and gut inflammation and neuroinflammation. In addition, we draw attention to diet modification, the use of probiotics and prebiotics and faecal microbiota transplantation as potential therapeutic approaches that may lead to a new treatment paradigm for Parkinson's disease.


33623004|t|Oral berberine improves brain dopa/dopamine levels to ameliorate Parkinson's disease by regulating gut microbiota.
33623004|w|Yan Wang; Qian Tong; Shu-Rong Ma; Zhen-Xiong Zhao; Li-Bin Pan; Lin Cong; Pei Han; Ran Peng; Hang Yu; Yuan Lin; Tian-Le Gao; Jia-Wen Shou; Xiao-Yang Li; Xian-Feng Zhang; Zheng-Wei Zhang; Jie Fu; Bao-Ying Wen; Jin-Bo Yu; Xuetao Cao; Jian-Dong Jiang
33623004|j|Signal transduction and targeted therapy
33623004|y|2021
33623004|a|The phenylalanine-tyrosine-dopa-dopamine pathway provides dopamine to the brain. In this process, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the rate-limiting enzyme that hydroxylates tyrosine and generates levodopa (L-dopa) with tetrahydrobiopterin (BH<sub>4</sub>) as a coenzyme. Here, we show that oral berberine (BBR) might supply H<sup>•</sup> through dihydroberberine (reduced BBR produced by bacterial nitroreductase) and promote the production of BH<sub>4</sub> from dihydrobiopterin; the increased BH<sub>4</sub> enhances TH activity, which accelerates the production of L-dopa by the gut bacteria. Oral BBR acts in a way similar to vitamins. The L-dopa produced by the intestinal bacteria enters the brain through the circulation and is transformed to dopamine. To verify the gut-brain dialog activated by BBR's effect, Enterococcus faecalis or Enterococcus faecium was transplanted into Parkinson's disease (PD) mice. The bacteria significantly increased brain dopamine and ameliorated PD manifestation in mice; additionally, combination of BBR with bacteria showed better therapeutic effect than that with bacteria alone. Moreover, 2,4,6-trimethyl-pyranylium tetrafluoroborate (TMP-TFB)-derivatized matrix-assisted laser desorption mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) imaging of dopamine identified elevated striatal dopamine levels in mouse brains with oral Enterococcus, and BBR strengthened the imaging intensity of brain dopamine. These results demonstrated that BBR was an agonist of TH in Enterococcus and could lead to the production of L-dopa in the gut. Furthermore, a study of 28 patients with hyperlipidemia confirmed that oral BBR increased blood/fecal L-dopa by the intestinal bacteria. Hence, BBR might improve the brain function by upregulating the biosynthesis of L-dopa in the gut microbiota through a vitamin-like effect.


34695538|t|Oral, Nasal, and Gut Microbiota in Parkinson's Disease.
34695538|w|Zhuo Li; Gang Lu; Enli Luo; Bin Wu; Zhe Li; Jianwen Guo; Zhangyong Xia; Chunye Zheng; Qiaozhen Su; Yan Zeng; Wai Yee Chan; Xianwei Su; Xinmin Qiu; Xirun Zheng; Qiaodi Cai; Yanjuan Xu; Yingjun Chen; Yuzhen Fan; Weiwei Chen; Zecheng Yu; Xinjie Chen; Chunying Zheng; Mingbang Wang; Wai Sang Poon; Xiaodong Luo
34695538|j|Neuroscience
34695538|y|2022
34695538|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most frequently diagnosed neurodegenerative disease. The purpose of this study was to investigate the link between microbiota composition in important mucosal interfaces (oral, nasal, and intestinal) and PD. Sequencing was undertaken of the V4-V5 region of the 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene of the microbiome from the oral cavity, nasal cavity, and gut of 91 PD patients and 91 healthy controls. Significant differences were found in microbiota composition in the oral cavity and gut, but not the nasal cavity, between PD patients and healthy controls after adjusting for age, gender, and body mass index (BMI). More genera in the oral cavity were significantly positively correlated with clinical characteristics, such as the HAMA and HAMD rating scales. The taxa c_Clostridia, o_Clostridiales, and f_Ruminococcaceae in the gut microbiota were associated with weight and MMSE score. Furthermore, as a result of dysbiosis, there was an enrichment of ion channel-, oxidative phosphorylation-, and carbohydrate metabolism-related pathways in the oral cavity and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis- and propanoate metabolism-related pathways in the intestine. Changes in these pathways can influence metabolism and inflammation, thereby contributing to PD pathogenesis. In addition, several subnetworks containing differentially abundant microbiota in the oral cavity and gut samples from PD patients may regulate microbial composition and function in PD. Overall, our results indicate that oral and gut dysbiosis may affect PD progression and provide a basis for understanding the pathogenesis of PD and identifying potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of this disease.


34492236|t|Probiotics: Potential novel therapeutics for microbiota-gut-brain axis dysfunction across gender and lifespan.
34492236|w|Shikha Snigdha; Kevin Ha; Paul Tsai; Timothy G Dinan; Jeremy D Bartos; Mohammed Shahid
34492236|j|Pharmacology & therapeutics
34492236|y|2022
34492236|a|Probiotics are live microorganisms, which when administered in adequate amounts, present a health benefit for the host. While the beneficial effects of probiotics on gastrointestinal function are generally well recognized, new animal research and clinical studies have found that alterations in gut microbial communities can have a broad range of effects throughout the body. Non-intestinal sites impacted include the immune, endocrine, cardiovascular and the central nervous system (CNS). In particular, there has been a growing interest and appreciation about the role that gut microbiota may play in affecting CNS-related function through the 'microbiota-gut-brain axis'. Emerging evidence suggests potential therapeutic benefits of probiotics in several CNS conditions, such as anxiety, depression, autism spectrum disorders and Parkinson's disease. There may also be some gender-specific variances in terms of probiotic mediated effects, with the gut microbiota shaping and being concurrently molded by the hormonal environment governing differences between the sexes. Probiotics may influence the ability of the gut microbiome to affect a variety of biological processes in the host, including neurotransmitter activity, vagal neurotransmission, generation of neuroactive metabolites and inflammatory response mediators. Some of these may engage in cross talk with host sex hormones, such as estrogens, which could be of relevance in relation to their effects on stress response and cognitive health. This raises the possibility of gender-specific variation with regards to the biological action of probiotics, including that on the endocrine and central nervous systems. In this review we aim to describe the current understanding in relation to the role and use of probiotics in microbiota-gut-brain axis-related dysfunction. Furthermore, we will address the conceptualization and classification of probiotics in the context of gender and lifespan as well as how restoring gut microbiota composition by clinical or dietary intervention can help in supporting health outcomes other than those related to the gastrointestinal tract. We also evaluate how these new learnings may impact industrial effort in probiotic research and the discovery and development of novel and more personalized, condition-specific, beneficial probiotic therapeutic agents.


33649989|t|The Gut-Brain Axis: Two Ways Signaling in Parkinson's Disease.
33649989|w|Nitu Dogra; Ruchi Jakhmola Mani; Deepshikha Pande Katare
33649989|j|Cellular and molecular neurobiology
33649989|y|2022
33649989|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic, progressive and second most prevalent neurological disorder affecting the motor system. Cardinal motor impairment and α-synucleinopathy are the characteristic features of PD. Recently, it has been identified that the gut-brain axis is substantially regulated by the gut microbiome (GM) through an immunological, neuroendocrine, and neural mechanism. However, disturbance in the gut-microbiome-brain axis in PD might proceed to gastrointestinal manifestations intermittently leading to the motor system and the PD pathogenesis itself. The gut microbial toxins may induce the production of α-synuclein (α-syn) aggregates in the enteric nervous system (ENS), which may proliferate and propagate in a prion-like-manner through the vagus nerve to the central nervous system (CNS); supporting the hypothesis that, GM might play a pivotal role in PD pathogenesis. Overstimulated innate immune system due to intestinal bacterial overgrowth or gut dysbiosis and the enhanced intestinal permeability may persuade systemic inflammation, while the activation of enteric glial cells and enteric neurons may contribute to α-synucleinopathy. Gut microbiota can bear a significant impact on neurological outcomes such as learning, memory and cognition. In this review paper, we summarize how the alterations in gut microbiota and ENS inflammation are associated with PD pathogenesis. The evidence supporting the causative role played by gut-associated dysbiosis and microbial byproducts, in the onset of PD is also discussed. We have highlighted the landmark discoveries in the field of PD particularly focusing on the gut-brain axis. A better comprehension of the interaction between the gut-brain axis, gut microbiota, and PD can usher in novel therapeutic and diagnostic approaches.


34536490|t|Gut dysbiosis, defective autophagy and altered immune responses in neurodegenerative diseases: Tales of a vicious cycle.
34536490|w|Saravana Babu Chidambaram; Musthafa Mohamed Essa; A G Rathipriya; Muhammed Bishir; Bipul Ray; Arehally M Mahalakshmi; A H Tousif; Meena K Sakharkar; Rajpal Singh Kashyap; Robert P Friedland; Tanya M Monaghan
34536490|j|Pharmacology & therapeutics
34536490|y|2022
34536490|a|The human microbiota comprises trillions of symbiotic microorganisms and is involved in regulating gastrointestinal (GI), immune, nervous system and metabolic homeostasis. Recent observations suggest a bidirectional communication between the gut microbiota and the brain via immune, circulatory and neural pathways, termed the Gut-Brain Axis (GBA). Alterations in gut microbiota composition, such as seen with an increased number of pathobionts and a decreased number of symbionts, termed gut dysbiosis or microbial intestinal dysbiosis, plays a prominent role in the pathogenesis of central nervous system (CNS)-related disorders. Clinical reports confirm that GI symptoms often precede neurological symptoms several years before the development of neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs). Pathologically, gut dysbiosis disrupts the integrity of the intestinal barrier leading to ingress of pathobionts and toxic metabolites into the systemic circulation causing GBA dysregulation. Subsequently, chronic neuroinflammation via dysregulated immune activation triggers the accumulation of neurotoxic misfolded proteins in and around CNS cells resulting in neuronal death. Emerging evidence links gut dysbiosis to the aggravation and/or spread of proteinopathies from the peripheral nervous system to the CNS and defective autophagy-mediated proteinopathies. This review summarizes the current understanding of the role of gut microbiota in NDDs, and highlights a vicious cycle of gut dysbiosis, immune-mediated chronic neuroinflammation, impaired autophagy and proteinopathies, which contributes to the development of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. We also discuss novel therapeutic strategies targeting the modulation of gut dysbiosis through prebiotics, probiotics, synbiotics or dietary interventions, and faecal microbial transplantation (FMT) in the management of NDDs.


34589401|t|Novel compound FLZ alleviates rotenone-induced PD mouse model by suppressing TLR4/MyD88/NF-<i>κ</i>B pathway through microbiota-gut-brain axis.
34589401|w|Zhe Zhao; Fangyuan Li; Jingwen Ning; Ran Peng; Junmei Shang; Hui Liu; Meiyu Shang; Xiu-Qi Bao; Dan Zhang
34589401|j|Acta pharmaceutica Sinica. B
34589401|y|2021
34589401|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, but none of the current treatments for PD can halt the progress of the disease due to the limited understanding of the pathogenesis. In PD development, the communication between the brain and the gastrointestinal system influenced by gut microbiota is known as microbiota-gut-brain axis. However, the explicit mechanisms of microbiota dysbiosis in PD development have not been well elucidated yet. FLZ, a novel squamosamide derivative, has been proved to be effective in many PD models and is undergoing the phase I clinical trial to treat PD in China. Moreover, our previous pharmacokinetic study revealed that gut microbiota could regulate the absorption of FLZ <i>in vivo</i>. The aims of our study were to assess the protective effects of FLZ treatment on PD and to further explore the underlying microbiota-related mechanisms of PD by using FLZ as a tool. In the current study, chronic oral administration of rotenone was utilized to induce a mouse model to mimic the pathological process of PD. Here we revealed that FLZ treatment alleviated gastrointestinal dysfunctions, motor symptoms, and dopaminergic neuron death in rotenone-challenged mice. 16S rRNA sequencing found that PD-related microbiota alterations induced by rotenone were reversed by FLZ treatment. Remarkably, FLZ administration attenuated intestinal inflammation and gut barrier destruction, which subsequently inhibited systemic inflammation. Eventually, FLZ treatment restored blood-brain barrier structure and suppressed neuroinflammation by inhibiting the activation of astrocytes and microglia in the substantia nigra (SN). Further mechanistic research demonstrated that FLZ treatment suppressed the TLR4/MyD88/NF-<i>κ</i>B pathway both in the SN and colon. Collectively, FLZ treatment ameliorates microbiota dysbiosis to protect the PD model <i>via</i> inhibiting TLR4 pathway, which contributes to one of the underlying mechanisms beneath its neuroprotective effects. Our research also supports the importance of microbiota-gut-brain axis in PD pathogenesis, suggesting its potential role as a novel therapeutic target for PD treatment.


34737076|t|Environmental neurotoxicants and inflammasome activation in Parkinson's disease - A focus on the gut-brain axis.
34737076|w|Aishwarya M Johnson; Zhen-Yi Andy Ou; Richard Gordon; Hariharan Saminathan
34737076|j|The international journal of biochemistry & cell biology
34737076|y|2022
34737076|a|Inflammasomes are multi-protein complexes expressed in immune cells that function as intracellular sensors of environmental, metabolic and cellular stress. Inflammasome activation in the brain, has been shown to drive neuropathology and disease progression by multiple mechanisms, making it one of the most attractive therapeutic targets for disease modification in Parkinson's Disease (PD). Extensive inflammasome activation is evident in the brains of people with PD at the sites of dopaminergic degeneration and synuclein aggregation. While substantial progress has been made on validating inflammasome activation as a therapeutic target for PD, the mechanisms by which inflammasome activation is triggered and sustained over the disease course remain poorly understood. A growing body of evidence point to environmental and occupational chemical exposures as possible triggers of inflammasome activation in PD. The involvement of the gastrointestinal system and gut microbiota in PD pathophysiology is beginning to be elucidated, especially the profound link between gut dysbiosis and immune activation. While large cohort studies confirmed specific changes in the gut microbiota in PD patients compared to age-matched healthy controls, recent research suggest that synuclein pathology could be initiated in the gastrointestinal tract. In this review, we present a summarized perspective on current understanding on inflammasome activation and the gut-brain-axis link during PD pathophysiology. We discuss multiple environmental toxicants that are implicated as the etiological agents in causing idiopathic PD and their mechanistic underpinnings during neuroinflammatory events. We additionally present future directions that needs to address the research questions related to the gut-microbiome-brain mechanisms in PD.


34512244|t|What Is Our Understanding of the Influence of Gut Microbiota on the Pathophysiology of Parkinson's Disease?
34512244|w|Amaryllis E Hill; Richard Wade-Martins; Philip W J Burnet
34512244|j|Frontiers in neuroscience
34512244|y|2021
34512244|a|Microbiota have increasingly become implicated in predisposition to human diseases, including neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Traditionally, a central nervous system (CNS)-centric approach to understanding PD has predominated; however, an association of the gut with PD has existed since Parkinson himself reported the disease. The gut-brain axis refers to the bidirectional communication between the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) and the brain. Gut microbiota dysbiosis, reported in PD patients, may extend this to a microbiota-gut-brain axis. To date, mainly the bacteriome has been investigated. The change in abundance of bacterial products which accompanies dysbiosis is hypothesised to influence PD pathophysiology <i>via</i> multiple mechanisms which broadly centre on inflammation, a cause of alpha-synuclein (a-syn) misfolding. Two main routes are hypothesised by which gut microbiota can influence PD pathophysiology, the neural and humoral routes. The neural route involves a-syn misfolding peripherally in the enteric nerves which can then be transported to the brain <i>via</i> the vagus nerve. The humoral route involves transportation of bacterial products and proinflammatory cytokines from the gut <i>via</i> the circulation which can cause central a-syn misfolding by inducing neuroinflammation. This article will assess whether the current literature supports gut bacteria influencing PD pathophysiology <i>via</i> both routes.


34094829|t|Gut microbiota mediates the absorption of FLZ, a new drug for Parkinson's disease treatment.
34094829|w|Junmei Shang; Shurong Ma; Caixia Zang; Xiuqi Bao; Yan Wang; Dan Zhang
34094829|j|Acta pharmaceutica Sinica. B
34094829|y|2021
34094829|a|The gut microbiota plays an important role in regulating the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of many drugs. FLZ, a novel squamosamide derivative, has been shown to have neuroprotective effects on experimental Parkinson's disease (PD) models. FLZ is under phase Ⅰ clinical trial now, while the underlying mechanisms contributing to the absorption of FLZ are still not fully elucidated. Due to the main metabolite of FLZ was abundant in feces but rare in urine and bile of mice, we focused on the gut microbiota to address how FLZ was metabolized and absorbed. <i>In vitro</i> studies revealed that FLZ could be exclusively metabolized to its major metabolite M1 by the lanosterol 14 alpha-demethylase (CYP51) in the gut microbiota, but was almost not metabolized by any other metabolism-related organs, such as liver, kidney, and small intestine. M1 was quickly absorbed into the blood and then remethylated to FLZ by catechol <i>O</i>-methyltransferase (COMT). Notably, dysbacteriosis reduced the therapeutic efficacy of FLZ on the PD mouse model by inhibiting its absorption. The results show that the gut microbiota mediate the absorption of FLZ through a FLZ-M1-FLZ circulation. Our research elucidates the vital role of the gut microbiota in the absorption of FLZ and provides a theoretical basis for clinical pharmacokinetic studies and clinical application of FLZ in the treatment of PD.


34977556|t|Influence of probiotic bacteria on gut microbiota composition and gut wall function in an <i>in-vitro</i> model in patients with Parkinson's disease.
34977556|w|Jonas Ghyselinck; Lynn Verstrepen; Frédéric Moens; Pieter Van Den Abbeele; Arnout Bruggeman; Jawal Said; Barry Smith; Lynne Ann Barker; Caroline Jordan; Valentina Leta; K Ray Chaudhuri; Abdul W Basit; Simon Gaisford
34977556|j|International journal of pharmaceutics: X
34977556|y|2021
34977556|a|We report here the potential role of a 4-strain probiotic suspension for use with patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Stool samples from a group of three patients with diagnosed PD were used to create microbiotas in an <i>in-vitro</i> gut model. The effects of dosing with an oral probiotic suspension (Symprove) on bacterial composition and metabolic activity in the microbiotas was evaluated over 48 h and compared with healthy controls. Additionally, the effect of probiotic dosing on epithelial tight-junction integrity, production of inflammatory markers and wound healing were evaluated in cell culture models. In general, the relative proportions of the main bacterial phyla in the microbiotas of PD patients differed from those of healthy subjects, with levels of <i>Firmicutes</i> raised and levels of <i>Bacteroidetes</i> reduced. Dosing with probiotic resulted in a change in bacterial composition in the microbiotas over a 48 h period. Several other indicators of gut health changed upon dosing with the probiotic; production of short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and lactate was stimulated, levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-10) increased and levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines (MCP-1 and IL-8) decreased. Tight junction integrity was seen to improve with probiotic dosing and wound healing was seen to occur faster than a control. The data suggest that if development and/or progression of PD is influenced by gut microbiota dysbiosis then supplementation of the diet with a properly formulated probiotic may be a useful adjunct to standard treatment in clinic.


33804226|t|New Avenues for Parkinson's Disease Therapeutics: Disease-Modifying Strategies Based on the Gut Microbiota.
33804226|w|Marina Lorente-Picón; Ariadna Laguna
33804226|j|Biomolecules
33804226|y|2021
33804226|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder that currently affects 1% of the population over the age of 60 years, and for which no disease-modifying treatments exist. Neurodegeneration and neuropathology in different brain areas are manifested as both motor and non-motor symptoms in patients. Recent interest in the gut-brain axis has led to increasing research into the gut microbiota changes in PD patients and their impact on disease pathophysiology. As evidence is piling up on the effects of gut microbiota in disease development and progression, another front of action has opened up in relation to the potential usage of microbiota-based therapeutic strategies in treating gastrointestinal alterations and possibly also motor symptoms in PD. This review provides status on the different strategies that are in the front line (i.e., antibiotics; probiotics; prebiotics; synbiotics; dietary interventions; fecal microbiota transplantation, live biotherapeutic products), and discusses the opportunities and challenges the field of microbiome research in PD is facing.


33857347|t|Bacterial Extracellular Vesicles and the Gut-Microbiota Brain Axis: Emerging Roles in Communication and Potential as Therapeutics.
33857347|w|Nicholas H Pirolli; William E Bentley; Steven M Jay
33857347|j|Advanced biology
33857347|y|2021
33857347|a|Bacterial extracellular vesicles (BEVs) have emerged as candidate signaling vectors for long-distance interkingdom communication within the gut-microbiota brain axis. Most bacteria release these nanosized vesicles, capable of signaling to the brain via their abundant protein and small RNA cargo, possibly directly via crossing the blood-brain barrier. BEVs have been shown to regulate brain gene expression and induce pathology at most stages of neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration, and thus they may play a causal role in diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and depression/anxiety. On the other hand, BEVs have intrinsic therapeutic properties that may be relevant to probiotic therapy and can also be engineered to function as drug delivery vehicles and vaccines. Thus, BEVs may be both a cause of and solution to neuropathological conditions. In this review, current knowledge of the physiological roles of BEVs as well as state of the art pertaining to the development of therapeutic BEVs in the context of the microbiome-gut-brain axis are summarized.


33746867|t|Effect of Levodopa Initiation on the Gut Microbiota in Parkinson's Disease.
33746867|w|Natalia Palacios; Anas Hannoun; Julie Flahive; Doyle Ward; Kelsey Goostrey; Anindita Deb; Kara M Smith
33746867|j|Frontiers in neurology
33746867|y|2021
33746867|a|<b>Background:</b> The impact of Levodopa on the gut microbiota of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients has not been sufficiently addressed. <b>Methods:</b> We conducted a longitudinal study to examine the impact of Levodopa initiation on the gut microbiota composition of 19 PD patients who had not previously been exposed to Levodopa. Patients provided two stool samples prior to and two samples 90 days after starting Levodopa. Motor impairment (MDS-UPDRS Part III), diet, and other patient characteristics were assessed. 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing was used to characterize the microbiota. We examined, cross-sectionally and longitudinally, the associations between Levodopa use and alpha and beta diversity and performed feature-wise, multivariate modeling to identify taxa associated longitudinally with Levodopa use and with improvement in motor function after Levodopa administration. <b>Results:</b> We did not observe significant differences in alpha or beta diversity before vs. after initiation of Levodopa. In longitudinal feature-wise analyses, at the genus level, no taxa were significantly associated with Levodopa use after false discovery rate (FDR) correction (<i>q</i> < 0.05). We observed a marginally lower relative abundance of bacteria belonging to <i>Clostridium</i> group IV in PD patients who experienced a medium or large improvement in motor impairment in response to Levodopa compared to those with a small response [β = -0.64 (SE: 0.18), p-trend: 0.00015 p-FDR: 0.019]. <b>Conclusions:</b> In this study, Levodopa was not associated with changes in microbiota composition in this longitudinal analysis. The association between abundance of <i>Clostridium</i> group IV and short-term motor symptom response to Levodopa is preliminary and should be investigated in larger, longer-term studies, that include a control group.


34934429|t|Gut microbiota relieves inflammation in the substantia nigra of chronic Parkinson's disease by protecting the function of dopamine neurons.
34934429|w|Tian Zhang; Tan Wang; Xinxu Chen; Zhenqiang Zhao; Zhibin Chen
34934429|j|Experimental and therapeutic medicine
34934429|y|2022
34934429|a|The composition of the intestinal flora of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) can change. However, whether reshaping the gut microbial composition can treat PD remains to be seen. The present study evaluated the effect of intestinal flora in the treatment of PD in a C57BL/6 mouse PD model induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Chronic, low-dose, MPTP-treated mice exhibited upregulated gene expression levels of TNF-α and IL-1β in the substantia nigra (SN) of the mice, and induced intestinal microbial disorders. This indicated that the chronic low-dose MPTP model could be used to evaluate the progress of early intestinal pathology and intestinal flora imbalance in PD. After transplantation of faecal bacteria to MPTP-induced PD mice, the level of inflammation in the SN of the mice was reduced, and motor dysfunction was alleviated. Notably, faecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) upregulated the abundance of <i>Blautia</i> but downregulated <i>Anaerostipes</i>, <i>Bifidobacterium</i>, <i>ASF356</i> and <i>Ruminococcus</i> in the gut of PD mice. In addition, FMT reduced the activation of microglia and astrocytes in the SN and reduced the expression levels of GSK3β, IL-1β, inducible nitric oxide synthase and phosphorylated PTEN in the SN. Overall, the present study demonstrated that gut microbial dysfunction is associated with the pathogenesis of PD, and that FMT can protect PD mice by inhibiting neuroinflammation.


33763767|t|Unravelling the potential of gut microbiota in sustaining brain health and their current prospective towards development of neurotherapeutics.
33763767|w|Ankita Banerjee; Lilesh Kumar Pradhan; Pradyumna Kumar Sahoo; Kautilya Kumar Jena; Nishant Ranjan Chauhan; Santosh Chauhan; Saroj Kumar Das
33763767|j|Archives of microbiology
33763767|y|2021
33763767|a|Increasing incidences of neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer's disease (AD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are being reported, but an insight into their pathology remains elusive. Findings have suggested that gut microbiota play a major role in regulating brain functions through the gut-brain axis. A unique bidirectional communication between gut microbiota and maintenance of brain health could play a pivotal role in regulating incidences of neurodegenerative diseases. Contrarily, the present life style with changing food habits and disturbed circadian rhythm may contribute to gut homeostatic imbalance and dysbiosis leading to progression of several neurological disorders. Therefore, dysbiosis, as a primary factor behind intestinal disorders, may also augment inflammation, intestinal and blood-brain barrier permeability through microbiota-gut-brain axis. This review primarily focuses on the gut-brain axis functions, specific gut microbial population, metabolites produced by gut microbiota, their role in regulating various metabolic processes and role of gut microbiota towards development of neurodegenerative diseases. However, several studies have reported a decrease in abundance of a specific gut microbial population and a corresponding increase in other microbial family, with few findings revealing some contradictions. Reports also showed that colonization of gut microbiota isolated from patients suffering from neurodegenerative disease leads to the development of enhance pathological outcomes in animal models. Hence, a systematic understanding of the dominant role of specific gut microbiome towards development of different neurodegenerative diseases could possibly provide novel insight into the use of probiotics and microbial transplantation as a substitute approach for treating/preventing such health maladies.


33337387|t|Does Gut Microbiota Influence the Course of Parkinson's Disease? A 3-Year Prospective Exploratory Study in de novo Patients.
33337387|w|Roberto Cilia; Marco Piatti; Emanuele Cereda; Carlotta Bolliri; Serena Caronni; Valentina Ferri; Erica Cassani; Salvatore Bonvegna; Carlo Ferrarese; Anna L Zecchinelli; Michela Barichella; Gianni Pezzoli
33337387|j|Journal of Parkinson's disease
33337387|y|2021
33337387|a|Although abnormalities in gut microbiota are hypothesized to influence the pathogenesis and clinical phenotype of Parkinson's disease (PD), prospective studies on de novo patients are lacking. To preliminarily investigate whether gut microbiota in early untreated PD may predict motor and non-motor features progression over a 3-year period. 16S ribosomal RNA gene amplicons were sequenced on fecal samples of 39 de novo PD patients. Multiple confounders were taken into account, including dietary habits. Motor and non-motor symptoms were assessed using validated scales at baseline and followed-up yearly for 3 years. At last follow-up, a detailed neuropsychological assessment was additionally performed. A general linear model for repeated measurements- adjusted by dopaminergic therapy at follow-up- was used to investigate the relationship between bacterial taxa abundance at baseline (stratified by the median of distribution at baseline) and outcome variables. Twenty-five patients were included (11 refused, 2 lost at follow-up, 1 died). Lower abundance of Roseburia (Firmicutes phylum) at baseline was associated with worse evolution of motor, non-motor and cognitive functions at 3-year follow-up. Similarly, lower abundance of Ruminococcaceae and Actinobacteria at baseline was associated with faster worsening of global cognitive functions. At follow-up, frontal lobe functions were the features most robustly associated with baseline microbial abnormalities. In the present exploratory study on de novo PD, we found an association between abnormal distribution of specific bacterial taxa and the progression of motor and non-motor features over a 3-year period. This proof-of-principle study supports the design of a larger observational study aiming to determine whether these differences survive multiple-comparison correction and define microbiota-specific subgroups suitable for therapeutic targeting.


34219519|t|The Role of The Gut Microbiome in Parkinson's Disease.
34219519|w|Amy Gallop; James Weagley; Saif-Ur-Rahman Paracha; George Grossberg
34219519|j|Journal of geriatric psychiatry and neurology
34219519|y|2021
34219519|a|The gut microbiota is known to play a role in various disease states through inflammatory, immune and endocrinologic response. Parkinson's Disease is of particular interest as gastrointestinal involvement is one of the earlier features seen in this disease. This paper examines the relationship between gut microbiota and Parkinson's Disease, which has a growing body of literature. Inflammation caused by gut dysbiosis is thought to increase a-synuclein aggregation and worsen motor and neurologic symptoms of Parkinson's disease. We discuss potential treatment and supplementation to modify the microbiota. Some of these treatments require further research before recommendations can be made, such as cord blood transplant, antibiotic use, immunomodulation and fecal microbiota transplant. Other interventions, such as increasing dietary fiber, polyphenol and fermented food intake, can be made with few risks and may have some benefit for symptom relief and speed of disease progression.


34032644|t|Gut Microbiota as a Mediator of Host Neuro-Immune Interactions: Implications in Neuroinflammatory Disorders.
34032644|w|Valentina Caputi; Jelena Popov; Maria Cecilia Giron; Siobhain O Apos Mahony
34032644|j|Modern trends in psychiatry
34032644|y|2021
34032644|a|The dynamic population of microbes that reside in the gastrointestinal tract plays a pivotal role in orchestrating several aspects of host physiology and health, including but not limited to nutrient extraction and metabolism, as well as the regulation of intestinal epithelial barrier integrity. Gut microbes interact with the host in a bi-directional manner as the microbiota can support the development and education of the innate and adaptive immune systems, thereby conferring protection against pathogens and harmful stimuli while training the host to maintain a homeostatic tolerance towards commensal symbiotics. Recent advances in the field have highlighted the importance of the host-microbiota relationship in neurodevelopment and behaviour, with relevant implications for the onset and progression of brain disorders of inflammatory origin. Microbial modulation of brain function is achieved throughout complex neuro-immune-endocrine pathways of the microbiome-gut-brain axis. Changes in the composition of the gut microbiota or perturbation in microbial-derived metabolites and neuroactive compounds are sensed by the afferent branches of the sympathetic and vagal innervation and transmitted to the central nervous system, which in turn produces behavioural responses. Here, we focus on how the crosstalk between the gut microbiota and the immune system modulates the development and function of the peripheral and central nervous systems. Specific attention is afforded to the involvement of host-microbe neuroimmune interactions in the pathogenesis of neuro-psychiatric and neuroinflammatory disorders such as autism spectrum disorders, anxiety, and depression, as well as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases.


33510784|t|Fecal Microbiota Transplantation: A New Therapeutic Attempt from the Gut to the Brain.
33510784|w|Hao-Ming Xu; Hong-Li Huang; You-Lian Zhou; Hai-Lan Zhao; Jing Xu; Di-Wen Shou; Yan-Di Liu; Yong-Jian Zhou; Yu-Qiang Nie
33510784|j|Gastroenterology research and practice
33510784|y|2021
33510784|a|Gut dysbacteriosis is closely related to various intestinal and extraintestinal diseases. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) is a biological therapy that entails transferring the gut microbiota from healthy individuals to patients in order to reconstruct the intestinal microflora in the latter. It has been proved to be an effective treatment for recurrent <i>Clostridium difficile</i> infection. Studies show that the gut microbiota plays an important role in the pathophysiology of neurological and psychiatric disorders through the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Therefore, reconstruction of the healthy gut microbiota is a promising new strategy for treating cerebral diseases. We have reviewed the latest research on the role of gut microbiota in different nervous system diseases as well as FMT in the context of its application in neurological, psychiatric, and other nervous system-related diseases (Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, autism spectrum disorder, bipolar disorder, hepatic encephalopathy, neuropathic pain, etc.).


34360787|t|Parkinson's Disease: A Prionopathy?
34360787|w|Sarah Vascellari; Aldo Manzin
34360787|j|International journal of molecular sciences
34360787|y|2021
34360787|a|The principal pathogenic event in Parkinson's disease is characterized by the conformational change of α-synuclein, which form pathological aggregates of misfolded proteins, and then accumulate in intraneuronal inclusions causing dopaminergic neuronal loss in specific brain regions. Over the last few years, a revolutionary theory has correlated Parkinson's disease and other neurological disorders with a shared mechanism, which determines α-synuclein aggregates and progresses in the host in a prion-like manner. In this review, the main characteristics shared between α-synuclein and prion protein are compared and the cofactors that influence the remodeling of native protein structures and pathogenetic mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration are discussed.


34381040|t|Genetic and environmental factors in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases and promising therapeutic intervention via fecal microbiota transplantation.
34381040|w|Hui Wang; Feng Yang; Shidong Zhang; Ruihua Xin; Yan Sun
34381040|j|NPJ Parkinson's disease
34381040|y|2021
34381040|a|Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by neuronal impairment and loss of function, and with the major shared histopathological hallmarks of misfolding and aggregation of specific proteins inside or outside cells. Some genetic and environmental factors contribute to the promotion of the development and progression of neurodegenerative diseases. Currently, there are no effective treatments for neurodegenerative diseases. It has been revealed that bidirectional communication exists between the brain and the gut. The gut microbiota is a changeable and experience-dependent ecosystem and can be modified by genetic and environmental factors. The gut microbiota provides potential therapeutic targets that can be regulated as new interventions for neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, we discuss genetic and environmental risk factors for neurodegenerative diseases, summarize the communication among the components of the microbiota-gut-brain axis, and discuss the treatment strategy of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT). FMT is a promising treatment for neurodegenerative diseases, and restoration of the gut microbiota to a premorbid state is a novel goal for prevention and treatment strategies.


34357086|t|Microbiota Gut-Brain Axis in Ischemic Stroke: A Narrative Review with a Focus about the Relationship with Inflammatory Bowel Disease.
34357086|w|Emanuele Sinagra; Gaia Pellegatta; Valentina Guarnotta; Marcello Maida; Francesca Rossi; Giuseppe Conoscenti; Socrate Pallio; Rita Alloro; Dario Raimondo; Fabio Pace; Andrea Anderloni
34357086|j|Life (Basel, Switzerland)
34357086|y|2021
34357086|a|The gut microbiota is emerging as an important player in neurodevelopment and aging as well as in brain diseases including stroke, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease. The complex interplay between gut microbiota and the brain, and vice versa, has recently become not only the focus of neuroscience, but also the starting point for research regarding many diseases such as inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). The bi-directional interaction between gut microbiota and the brain is not completely understood. The aim of this review is to sum up the evidencesconcerningthe role of the gut-brain microbiota axis in ischemic stroke and to highlight the more recent evidences about the potential role of the gut-brain microbiota axis in the interaction between inflammatory bowel disease and ischemic stroke.


34495955|t|Gut microbiota alterations in response to sleep length among African-origin adults.
34495955|w|Na Fei; Candice Choo-Kang; Sirimon Reutrakul; Stephanie J Crowley; Dale Rae; Kweku Bedu-Addo; Jacob Plange-Rhule; Terrence E Forrester; Estelle V Lambert; Pascal Bovet; Walter Riesen; Wolfgang Korte; Amy Luke; Brian T Layden; Jack A Gilbert; Lara R Dugas
34495955|j|PloS one
34495955|y|2021
34495955|a|Sleep disorders are increasingly being characterized in modern society as contributing to a host of serious medical problems, including obesity and metabolic syndrome. Changes to the microbial community in the human gut have been reportedly associated with many of these cardiometabolic outcomes. In this study, we investigated the impact of sleep length on the gut microbiota in a large cohort of 655 participants of African descent, aged 25-45, from Ghana, South Africa (SA), Jamaica, and the United States (US). The sleep duration was self-reported via a questionnaire. Participants were classified into 3 sleep groups: short (<7hrs), normal (7-<9hrs), and long (≥9hrs). Forty-seven percent of US participants were classified as short sleepers and 88% of SA participants as long sleepers. Gut microbial composition analysis (16S rRNA gene sequencing) revealed that bacterial alpha diversity negatively correlated with sleep length (p<0.05). Furthermore, sleep length significantly contributed to the inter-individual beta diversity dissimilarity in gut microbial composition (p<0.01). Participants with both short and long-sleep durations exhibited significantly higher abundances of several taxonomic features, compared to normal sleep duration participants. The predicted relative proportion of two genes involved in the butyrate synthesis via lysine pathway were enriched in short sleep duration participants. Finally, co-occurrence relationships revealed by network analysis showed unique interactions among the short, normal and long duration sleepers. These results suggest that sleep length in humans may alter gut microbiota by driving population shifts of the whole microbiota and also specific changes in Exact Sequence Variants abundance, which may have implications for chronic inflammation associated diseases. The current findings suggest a possible relationship between disrupted sleep patterns and the composition of the gut microbiota. Prospective investigations in larger and more prolonged sleep researches and causally experimental studies are needed to confirm these findings, investigate the underlying mechanism and determine whether improving microbial homeostasis may buffer against sleep-related health decline in humans.


34974121|t|Gut microbiota modulation by prednisolone in a rat kindling model of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced seizure.
34974121|w|Amanda Muliterno Domingues Lourenço de Lima; Gabriel de Lima Rosa; Edson Fernando Müller Guzzo; Rafael Bremm Padilha; Rodrigo Costa da Silva; Alexandre Kleber Silveira; Daiana de Lima Morales; Milena Conci de Araujo; José Claudio Fonseca Moreira; Afonso Luís Barth; Adriana Simon Coitinho; Sueli Teresinha Van Der Sand
34974121|j|Microbial pathogenesis
34974121|y|2022
34974121|a|The gut microbiota is a complex community composed by several microorganisms that interact in the maintenance of homeostasis and contribute to physiological processes, including brain function. The relationship of the taxonomic composition of the gut microbiota with neurological diseases such as autism, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, anxiety, and depression is widely recognized. The immune system is an important intermediary between the gut microbiota and the central nervous system, being one of the communication routes of the gut-brain axis. Although the complexity of the relationship between inflammation and epilepsy has not yet been elucidated, inflammatory processes are similar in many ways to the consequences of dysbiosis and contribute to disease progression. This study aimed to analyze the taxonomic composition of the gut microbiota of rats treated with prednisolone in a kindling model of epilepsy. Male Wistar rats (90 days, n = 24) divided into four experimental groups: sodium chloride solution 0.9 g%, diazepam 2 mg/kg, prednisolone 1 mg/kg, and prednisolone 5 mg/kg administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) for 14 days. The kindling model was induced by pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) 25 mg/kg i.p. on alternate days. The taxonomic profile was established by applying metagenomic DNA sequencing. There was no change in alpha diversity, and the composition of the gut microbiota between prednisolone and diazepam was similar. The significant increase in Verrucomicrobia, Saccharibacteria, and Actinobacteria may be related to the protective activity against seizures and inflammatory processes that cause some cases of epilepsy. Further studies are needed to investigate the functional influence that these species have on epilepsy and the inflammatory processes that trigger it.


34893951|t|Potential Role of Akkermansia muciniphila in Parkinson's Disease and Other Neurological/Autoimmune Diseases.
34893951|w|Xin Fang; Fang-Jun Li; Dao-Jun Hong
34893951|j|Current medical science
34893951|y|2021
34893951|a|The composition of the gut microbiota, including Akkermansia muciniphila (A. muciniphila), is altered in many neurological diseases and may be involved in the pathophysiological processes of Parkinson's disease (PD). A. muciniphila, a mucin-degrading bacterium, is a potential next-generation microbe that has anti-inflammatory properties and is responsible for keeping the body healthy. As the role of A. muciniphila in PD has become increasingly apparent, we discuss the potential link between A. muciniphila and various neurological diseases (including PD) in the current review.


33985520|t|Evaluation of fecal microbiota transplantation in Parkinson's disease patients with constipation.
33985520|w|Xiao-Yi Kuai; Xiao-Han Yao; Li-Juan Xu; Yu-Qing Zhou; Li-Ping Zhang; Yi Liu; Shao-Fang Pei; Chun-Li Zhou
33985520|j|Microbial cell factories
33985520|y|2021
33985520|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder and 70-80% of PD patients suffer from gastrointestinal dysfunction such as constipation. We aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) for treating PD related to gastrointestinal dysfunction. We conducted a prospective, single- study. Eleven patients with PD received FMT. Fecal samples were collected before and after FMT and subjected to 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) gene sequencing. Hoehn-Yahr (H-Y) grade, Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) score, and the Non-Motion Symptom Questionnaire (NMSS) were used to assess improvements in motor and non-motor symptoms. PAC-QOL score and Wexner constipation score were used to assess the patient's constipation symptoms. All patients were tested by the small intestine breath hydrogen test, performed before and after FMT. Community richness (chao) and microbial structure in before-FMT PD patients were significantly different from the after-FMT. We observed an increased abundance of Blautia and Prevotella in PD patients after FMT, while the abundance of Bacteroidetes decreased dramatically. After FMT, the H-Y grade, UPDRS, and NMSS of PD patients decreased significantly. Through the lactulose H2 breath test, the intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) in PD patients returned to normal. The PAC-QOL score and Wexner constipation score in after-FMT patients decreased significantly. Our study profiles specific characteristics and microbial dysbiosis in the gut of PD patients. FMT might be a therapeutic potential for reconstructing the gut microbiota of PD patients and improving their motor and non-motor symptoms.


34053222|t|Development of an Efficient and Sensitive Chemical Derivatization-Based LC-MS/MS Method for Quantifying Gut Microbiota-Derived Metabolites in Human Plasma and Its Application in Studying Cardiovascular Disease.
34053222|w|Hsin-Yu Liao; Chin-Yi Wang; Ching-Hua Lee; Hsien-Li Kao; Wei-Kai Wu; Ching-Hua Kuo
34053222|j|Journal of proteome research
34053222|y|2021
34053222|a|Recently, the gut microbiota has been found to be associated with many diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease, depression, Parkinson's disease, cancer, metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular disease (CVD). Among various gut microbiota-derived metabolites (GMs), short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), bile acids (BAs), and tryptophan (TRP) metabolites are the most frequently discussed metabolites. LC-MS/MS shows advantages in quantifying the levels of metabolites with good sensitivity and selectivity; however, the poor ionization efficiency and polar characteristics of SCFAs make their analysis challenging, especially when analyzing plasma samples with low SCFA concentrations. Moreover, without characteristic fragment ions for unconjugated BAs and different detection ion modes for TRP metabolites and BAs, GM analysis is complex and time-consuming. To overcome these problems, we developed a derivatization method combined with LC-MS/MS to enhance the sensitivity and LC retention of GMs. Through derivatization with 3-nitrophenylhydrazine (3-NPH), 7 SCFAs, 9 bile acids, and 6 tryptophan metabolites can be simultaneously analyzed via separation within 14 min on a reversed-phase C18 column. For accurate quantification, <sup>13</sup>C<sub>6</sub>-3NPH-labeled standards were used as one-to-one internal standards. This derivatization approach was optimized and then validated. We further applied this method to investigate the targeted GM profile in patients with CVD. The results showed a significant reduction in plasma butyrate levels in CVD patients compared with healthy controls, suggesting its potentially protective role in CVD. In summary, this work provides a sensitive and effective LC-MS/MS method for simultaneously quantifying gut microbiota-related metabolites in human plasma, which could benefit various future gut microbiota-related studies.


34276644|t|Altered Actinobacteria and Firmicutes Phylum Associated Epitopes in Patients With Parkinson's Disease.
34276644|w|Zhuo Li; Gang Lu; Zhe Li; Bin Wu; Enli Luo; Xinmin Qiu; Jianwen Guo; Zhangyong Xia; Chunye Zheng; Qiaozhen Su; Yan Zeng; Wai Yee Chan; Xianwei Su; Qiaodi Cai; Yanjuan Xu; Yingjun Chen; Mingbang Wang; Wai Sang Poon; Xiaodong Luo
34276644|j|Frontiers in immunology
34276644|y|2021
34276644|a|Recent evidence suggests that inflammation was participated in the pathogenesis of PD, thus, to understand the potential mechanism of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), we performed a metagenomic analysis of fecal samples from PD patient and controls. Using a two-stage metagenome-wide association strategy, fecal DNA samples from 69 PD patients and 244 controls in three groups (comprising 66 spouses, 97 age-matched, and 81 normal samples, respectively) were analyzed, and differences between candidate gut microbiota and microbiota-associated epitopes (MEs) were compared. In the study, 27 candidate bacterial biomarkers and twenty-eight candidate epitope peptides were significantly different between the PD patients and control groups. Further, enriched 4 and 13 MEs in PD were positively associated with abnormal inflammatory indicators [neutrophil percentage (NEUT.1), monocyte count/percentage (MONO/MONO.1), white blood cell count (WBC)] and five candidate bacterial biomarkers (c_Actinobacteria, f_Bifidobacteriaceae, <i>g_Bifidobacterium</i>, o_Bifidobacteriales, p_Actinobacteria) from Actinobacteria phylum, and they were also positively associated with histidine degradation and proline biosynthesis pathways, respectively. Additionally, enriched 2 MEs and 1 ME in PD were positively associated with above inflammatory indicators and two bacteria (f_Lactobacillaceae, <i>g_Lactobacillus</i>) from Firmicutes phylum, and they were also positively associated with pyruvate fermentation to propanoate I and negatively associated with isopropanol biosynthesis, respectively. Of these MEs, two MEs from GROEL2, RPSC were derived from <i>Mycobacterium tuberculosis</i>, triggered the T cell immune response, as previously reported. Additionally, other candidate epitope peptides derived from <i>Mycobacterium tuberculosis</i> and <i>Mycobacterium leprae</i> may also have potential immune effects in PD. In all, the altered MEs in PD may relate to abnormalities in immunity and glutamate and propionate metabolism, which furthers our understanding of the pathogenesis of PD.


33912026|t|Colonic Dopaminergic Neurons Changed Reversely With Those in the Midbrain via Gut Microbiota-Mediated Autophagy in a Chronic Parkinson's Disease Mice Model.
33912026|w|Xin Liu; Zhong-Rui Du; Xiong Wang; Kar-Him Luk; Cheuk-Hin Chan; Xu Cao; Qing Zhao; Fang Zhao; Wing-Tak Wong; Ka-Hing Wong; Xiao-Li Dong
33912026|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
33912026|y|2021
33912026|a|The role of gut-brain axis in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) have become a research hotspot, appropriate animal model to study gut-brain axis in PD is yet to be confirmed. Our study employed a classical PD mice model achieved by chronic MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) injection to study concurrent changes of dopaminergic neurons in the midbrain and the colon of mice. Our results showed such a PD model exhibited apparent locomotor deficits but not gastrointestinal dysfunction. Tyrosine hydroxylase expressions and dopamine content reduced greatly in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) or striatum, but increased in the colon of PD mice. Mechanism investigation indicated autophagy activity and apoptosis were stimulated in the SNpc, but inhibited in the colon of PD mice. Interplay of gut microbiota (GM) and autophagy in response to chronic MPTP injection led to GM dysbiosis and defective autophagy in mice colon. Meanwhile, fecal short chain fatty acids (SCFAs), acetate and propionate in particular, declined greatly in PD mice, which could be attributed to the decreased bacteria abundance of phylum <i>Bacteroidetes</i>, but increased abundance of phylum <i>Firmicutes</i>. GM dysbiosis derived fecal SCFAs might be one of the mediators of downregulated autophagy in the colon of PD mice. In conclusion, colonic dopaminergic neurons changed in the opposition direction with those in the midbrain via GM dysbiosis-mediated autophagy inhibition followed by suppressed apoptosis in response to chronic MPTP injection. Such a chronic PD mice model might not be an ideal model to study role of gut-brain axis in PD progression.


36018501|t|Diet, Gut Microbiome, and Cognitive Decline.
36018501|w|Susan Ettinger
36018501|j|Current nutrition reports
36018501|y|2022
36018501|a|An epidemic of age-associated cognitive decline, most commonly ascribed to neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, is causing healthcare costs to soar and devastating caregivers. An estimated 6.5 million Americans are living today with Alzheimer's disease, with 13.8 million cases projected by mid-century. Although genetic mutations are known to cause neurodegeneration, autosomal dominant disease is very rare and most sporadic cases can be attributed, at least in part, to modifiable risk factors. Diet is a potential modifiable risk factor in cognitive decline. Food communicates with the brain through a complex signaling web involving multiple cells, mediators and receptors. Gut-brain communication is modulated by microorganisms including bacteria, archaea, viruses, and unicellular eukaryotes, which together constitute the microbiota. Microbes not only play major roles in the digestion and fermentation of the food, providing nutrients and bioactive metabolites, but also reflect the type and amount of food consumed and food-borne toxic exposures. Food components modify the diversity and abundance of the microbial populations, maintain the integrity of the gut barrier, and regulate the passage of microbes and their metabolites into the blood stream where they modulate the immune system and communicate with body systems including the brain. This paper will focus on selected mechanisms through which interactions between diet and the gut microbiota can modify brain integrity and cognitive function with emphasis on the pathogenesis of the most common dementia, Alzheimer's disease.


35890040|t|Gut Microbes and Neuropathology: Is There a Causal Nexus?
35890040|w|Katherine Dinan; Timothy G Dinan
35890040|j|Pathogens (Basel, Switzerland)
35890040|y|2022
35890040|a|The gut microbiota is a virtual organ which produces a myriad of molecules that the brain and other organs require. Humans and microbes are in a symbiotic relationship, we feed the microbes, and in turn, they provide us with essential molecules. Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes phyla account for around 80% of the total human gut microbiota, and approximately 1000 species of bacteria have been identified in the human gut. In adults, the main factors influencing microbiota structure are diet, exercise, stress, disease and medications. In this narrative review, we explore the involvement of the gut microbiota in Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis and autism, as these are such high-prevalence disorders. We focus on preclinical studies that increase the understanding of disease pathophysiology. We examine the potential for targeting the gut microbiota in the development of novel therapies and the limitations of the currently published clinical studies. We conclude that while the field shows enormous promise, further large-scale studies are required if a causal link between these disorders and gut microbes is to be definitively established.


35965446|t|The gut microbiome and cognition in Parkinson's disease: a systematic review.
35965446|w|Hayley Grant; Ryan Anderton; Natalie Gasson; Blake J Lawrence
35965446|j|Nutritional neuroscience
35965446|y|2023
35965446|a|The pathology underlying cognitive changes in people with Parkinson's disease (PD) is not well understood. In healthy older adults, gut microbiome composition has been associated with cognitive function. In people with PD, preliminary evidence suggests that cortical spreading of abnormal alpha-synuclein aggregates may be associated with cognitive impairment. As changes in the gut have been linked to PD onset and associated Lewy body pathology, an investigation of the gut microbiome and cognition in PD is warranted. To synthesise existing evidence on the relationship between the gut microbiome and cognitive function in PD. A systematic review was conducted to search for peer-reviewed articles and grey literature published to July 2021 across seven electronic databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Scopus, Cochrane Library, ProQuest, and ProQuest Dissertations and Theses). English language articles reporting the relationship between cognition and the gut microbiome in human participants with PD were considered for inclusion. Results were qualitatively synthesised and evidence quality was assessed using the QualSyst tool for quantitative studies. Five cross-sectional studies reporting the association between the gut microbiome and cognition in 395 participants with PD were included. Studies provided preliminary evidence of a relationship between cognition and gut microbiota within the <i>Bacteroidetes</i> and <i>Firmicutes</i> phyla, however, associations with specific genera were inconsistent across studies. Some species of short-chain fatty acid-producing bacteria (e.g. acetate, butyrate, and propionate producers) appear to be reduced in participants with PD with cognitive impairment. More research with larger samples and more consistent methodology is needed to substantiate these findings.


35795315|t|A 10-Year Bibliometric Analysis of Global Research on Gut Microbiota and Parkinson's Disease: Characteristics, Impact, and Trends.
35795315|w|Miguel Cabanillas-Lazo; Carlos Quispe-Vicuña; John Barja-Ore; Alicia Fernandez-Giusti; Arnaldo Munive-Degregori; Yesenia Retamozo-Siancas; Maria Eugenia Guerrero; Frank Mayta-Tovalino
35795315|j|BioMed research international
35795315|y|2022
35795315|a|To perform a bibliometric analysis of scientific production related to gut microbiota and Parkinson's disease between 2011 and 2020. A descriptive, retrospective, cross-sectional, and bibliometric study was carried out. The Scopus database was used as a source to evaluate the worldwide scientific production on intestinal microbiota and its relationship with Parkinson's disease. Data were extracted from Scopus using a formula developed with thesaurus terms MeSH (Medline) and Emtree (Embase). A total of 591 documents were found. The retrieved manuscripts received an average of 41.9 citations per document. Four of the 10 most productive authors were Italian. The University of Helsinki (Finland) was the institution with the highest scientific production (19 papers) and the highest impact (5921 citations). In terms of productivity and impact, Movement Disorders ranked first with 38 papers and 2782 citations, and those papers published in Q1 quartile journals exceeded the sum of the remaining quartiles. Papers with international collaboration were the most cited. Keyword analysis showed that the terms Parkinson Disease, Disease, and Intestine Flora were the most frequent. The number of papers on Parkinson's disease and gut microbiota has been increasing; however, high-quality journals maintain the same high publication rate. International collaboration from high-income countries played an important role in the impact generated by the publications.


36243356|t|Emerging insights between gut microbiome dysbiosis and Parkinson's disease: Pathogenic and clinical relevance.
36243356|w|Mingxia Bi; Lijuan Feng; Jiahui He; Chang Liu; Yulin Wang; Hong Jiang; Shuang-Jiang Liu
36243356|j|Ageing research reviews
36243356|y|2022
36243356|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complicated neurodegenerative disease, of which gastrointestinal disturbance appears prior to motor symptoms. Numerous studies have shed light on the roles of gastrointestinal tract and its neural connection to brain in PD pathology. In the past decades, the fields of microbiology and neuroscience have become ever more entwined. The emergence of gut microbiome has been considered as one of the key regulators of gut-brain function. With the advent of multi-omics sequencing techniques, gut microbiome of PD patients has been shown unique characteristics. The resident gut microbiota can exert considerable effects in PD and there are suggestions of a link between gut microbiome dysbiosis and PD progression. In this review, we summarize the latest progresses of gut microbiome dysbiosis in PD pathogenesis, further highlight the clinical relevance of gut microbiota and its metabolites in both the non-motor and motor symptoms of PD. Furthermore, we draw attention to the complex interplay between gut microbiota and PD drugs, with the purpose of improving drug efficacy and prescription accordingly. Further studies at specific strain level and longitudinal prospective clinical trials using optimized methods are still needed for the development of diagnostic markers and novel therapeutic regimens for PD.


36257595|t|Gut microbiota manipulation as an epilepsy treatment.
36257595|w|Luigi Francesco Iannone; Maria Gómez-Eguílaz; Carmen De Caro
36257595|j|Neurobiology of disease
36257595|y|2022
36257595|a|Many studies have documented the important role of the gut microbiota (GM) in the regulation of several central nervous system (CNS) processes through the microbiota-gut-brain (MGB) axis. This latter represents the connection between the CNS, the enteric nervous system, the gut and its microbiota through several ascending and descending pathways. The variation of the GM composition is associated with the pathogenesis and/or progression as well as severity of various neuropsychiatric/neurological diseases such as depression, autism spectrum disorder, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's, and Alzheimer's diseases. Recently, changes in the bacterial composition of the GM have also been linked to epilepsy and seizures, with some studies exploring the potential role of GM in the regulation of neuronal hyperexcitability, seizure occurrence and epileptogenesis. Accordingly, there are potential novel treatments which are currently being investigated such as probiotics, prebiotics and symbiotic that may represent innovative therapeutic approaches. The aim of this review is to explore the effect of gut microbiota manipulation as a therapeutic strategy in epilepsy and the methodological challenges to design (translational) clinical trial investigating the gut microbiota.


35807841|t|Overlapping Mechanisms of Action of Brain-Active Bacteria and Bacterial Metabolites in the Pathogenesis of Common Brain Diseases.
35807841|w|Tanja Patricia Eicher; M Hasan Mohajeri
35807841|j|Nutrients
35807841|y|2022
35807841|a|The involvement of the gut microbiota and the metabolites of colon-residing bacteria in brain disease pathogenesis has been covered in a growing number of studies, but comparative literature is scarce. To fill this gap, we explored the contribution of the microbiota-gut-brain axis to the pathophysiology of seven brain-related diseases (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, autism spectrum disorder, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, major depressive disorder, and bipolar disorder). In this article, we discussed changes in bacterial abundance and the metabolic implications of these changes on disease development and progression. Our central findings indicate that, mechanistically, all seven diseases are associated with a leaky gut, neuroinflammation, and over-activated microglial cells, to which gut-residing bacteria and their metabolites are important contributors. Patients show a pro-inflammatory shift in their colon microbiota, harbouring more Gram-negative bacteria containing immune-triggering lipopolysaccharides (LPS) in their cell walls. In addition, bacteria with pro-inflammatory properties (<i>Alistipes</i>, <i>Eggerthella</i>, <i>Flavonifractor</i>) are found in higher abundances, whereas lower abundances of anti-inflammatory bacteria (<i>Bifidobacterium</i>, <i>Coprococcus</i>, <i>Eucbacterium</i>, <i>Eubacterium rectale</i>, <i>Faecalibacterium</i>, <i>Faecalibacterium prasunitzii</i>, <i>Lactobacillus</i>, <i>Prevotella</i>, <i>Roseburia</i>) are reported, when compared to healthy controls. On the metabolite level, aberrant levels of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) are involved in disease pathogenesis and are mostly found in lower quantities. Moreover, bacterial metabolites such as neurotransmitters (acetylcholine, dopamine, noradrenaline, GABA, glutamate, serotonin) or amino acids (phenylalanine, tryptophan) also play an important role. In the future, defined aberrations in the abundance of bacteria strains and altered bacterial metabolite levels could likely be possible markers for disease diagnostics and follow-ups. Moreover, they could help to identify novel treatment options, underlining the necessity for a deeper understanding of the microbiota-gut-brain axis.


36034146|t|The relationship between Parkinson's disease and gastrointestinal diseases.
36034146|w|Jiaqi Zeng; Xinchan Wang; Fei Pan; Zhiqi Mao
36034146|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
36034146|y|2022
36034146|a|An increasing number of studies have provided evidence for the hypothesis that the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) may derive from the gut. Firstly, Lewy pathology can be induced in the enteric nervous system (ENS) and be transported to the central nervous system (CNS) via the vagal nerve. Secondly, the altered composition of gut microbiota causes an imbalance between beneficial and deleterious microbial metabolites which interacts with the increased gut permeability and the gut inflammation as well as the systemic inflammation. The activated inflammatory status then affects the CNS and promotes the pathology of PD. Given the above-mentioned findings, researchers start to pay attention to the connection between PD and gastrointestinal diseases including irritable bowel syndrome, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), microscopic colitis (MC), gastrointestinal infections, gastrointestinal neoplasms, and colonic diverticular disease (CDD). This review focuses on the association between PD and gastrointestinal diseases as well as the pathogenesis of PD from the gut.


37693045|t|Neuroprotective effects of an engineered <i>Escherichia coli</i> Nissle 1917 on Parkinson's disease in mice by delivering GLP-1 and modulating gut microbiota.
37693045|w|Heng Wu; Jing Wei; Xiumiao Zhao; Ying Liu; Zhihang Chen; Kehong Wei; Jiachen Lu; Wenjie Chen; Meixiu Jiang; Shengjie Li; Tingtao Chen
37693045|j|Bioengineering & translational medicine
37693045|y|2023
37693045|a|Considerable evidence suggests that insulin resistance is closely linked to Parkinson's disease (PD), leading to agents aiming at treating diabetes can be regarded as new neuroprotective strategies in PD, notably glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1). However, the extremely short half-life of GLP-1 due to degradation by the ubiquitous proteolytic enzyme limits its clinical application. In this study, we engineered the recombinant integrant probiotic strain <i>Escherichia coli</i> Nissle 1917 (EcN) to create a strain EcN-GLP-1 that effectively delivers the heterologous GLP-1 molecule. Subsequently, we assessed its neuroprotective effects on 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD mice. We demonstrated that EcN-GLP-1 treatment could improve motor deficits, increase tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons, suppress microglia and astrocyte activation, reduce brain and colon inflammation, and ameliorate colonic barrier function damaged by MPTP induction. Meanwhile, we confirmed that the oral administration of EcN-GLP-1 could restore the disturbance of gut microbiota in the MPTP-induced PD mice, by reducing the relative abundances of <i>Akkermansia</i> and <i>Oscillospira</i>, and increasing the level of <i>Prevotella</i> in the gut. These results support further development of an engineered probiotic platform in which production of GLP-1 for gut-brain disorders, such as PD.


36182642|t|Gut-oriented disease modifying therapy for Parkinson's disease.
36182642|w|Chin-Hsien Lin; Hsin-Chih Lai; Ming-Shiang Wu
36182642|j|Journal of the Formosan Medical Association = Taiwan yi zhi
36182642|y|2023
36182642|a|Neuropathology studies have shown that the pathognomonic feature of Parkinson's disease (PD), one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders, may start from the gut enteric nervous system and then spread to the central dopaminergic neurons through the gut-brain axis. With the advent of metagenomic sequencing and metabolomic analysis, a plethora of evidence has revealed different gut microbiomes and gut metabolites in patients with PD compared with unaffected controls. Currently, although dopaminergic treatments and deep brain stimulation can provide some symptomatic benefits for motor symptoms of the disease, their long-term use is problematic. A mechanism-targeted therapy to halt the neurodegeneration is lacking. The recently observed gut microenvironmental changes in the early stages of the disease play a vital role in the PD pathogenesis. Patients whose disease begins in the gut may benefit most from interventions that target the gut microenvironments. In this review, we will summarize the current studies demonstrating multifunctional roles of gut microbiota in the gut-brain axis of PD and the currently available evidence for targeting the gut microbiota as a novel approach to potential disease-modifying therapy in PD.


36140158|t|Microbiota Dysbiosis in Parkinson Disease-In Search of a Biomarker.
36140158|w|Julia Maya Nowak; Mateusz Kopczyński; Andrzej Friedman; Dariusz Koziorowski; Monika Figura
36140158|j|Biomedicines
36140158|y|2022
36140158|a|Numerous studies have highlighted the role of the gastrointestinal system in Parkinson disease pathogenesis. It is likely triggered by proinflammatory markers produced by specific gut bacteria. This review's aim is to identify gut bacterial biomarkers of Parkinson disease. A comprehensive search for original research papers on gut microbiota composition in Parkinson disease was conducted using the PubMed, Embase, and Scopus databases. Research papers on intestinal permeability, nasal and oral microbiomes, and interventional studies were excluded. The yielded results were categorized into four groups: Parkinson disease vs. healthy controls; disease severity; non-motor symptoms; and clinical phenotypes. This review was conducted in accordance with the PRISMA 2020 statement. A total of 51 studies met the eligibility criteria. In the Parkinson disease vs. healthy controls group, 22 bacteria were deemed potentially important. In the disease severity category, two bacteria were distinguished. In the non-motor symptoms and clinical phenotypes categories, no distinct pathogen was identified. The studies in this review report bacteria of varying taxonomic levels, which prevents the authors from reaching a clear conclusion. Future research should follow a unified methodology in order to identify potential biomarkers for Parkinson disease.


36458227|t|Modulating the Gut Microbiota as a Therapeutic Intervention for Alzheimer's Disease.
36458227|w|Mingli Liu; Ping Zhong
36458227|j|Indian journal of microbiology
36458227|y|2022
36458227|a|Growing evidence suggested that the change of composition and proportion of intestinal microbiota may be related to many diseases, such as irritable bowel syndrome, bipolar disorder, Parkinson's disease, as well as Alzheimer's disease. Current literature supports the fact that unbalanced gut microbial composition (gut dysbiosis) is a risk factor for AD. In our review, we briefly sum up the recent progress regarding the correlations between the gut microbiota and AD. Therapeutic interventions capable of modulating the make-up of the gut microflora may exert beneficial effects on AD, preventing or delaying the beginning of AD or counteracting its development. Additionally, well-documented approaches that can positively influence AD may exert their beneficial effects through modifying the gut microbiota. Therefore, other novel interventions which can target on gut microbiota will also be potential therapies for AD. The chances and challenges that AD is confronted with in the research field of microbiomics are also discussed in this review.


36365188|t|Membrane Vesicles Derived from Gut Microbiota and Probiotics: Cutting-Edge Therapeutic Approaches for Multidrug-Resistant Superbugs Linked to Neurological Anomalies.
36365188|w|Prakhar Srivastava; Kwang-Sun Kim
36365188|j|Pharmaceutics
36365188|y|2022
36365188|a|Multidrug-resistant (MDR) superbugs can breach the blood-brain barrier (BBB), leading to a continuous barrage of pro-inflammatory modulators and induction of severe infection-related pathologies, including meningitis and brain abscess. Both broad-spectrum or species-specific antibiotics (β-lactamase inhibitors, polymyxins, vancomycin, meropenem, plazomicin, and sarecycline) and biocompatible poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) nanoparticles have been used to treat these infections. However, new therapeutic platforms with a broad impact that do not exert off-target deleterious effects are needed. Membrane vesicles or extracellular vesicles (EVs) are lipid bilayer-enclosed particles with therapeutic potential owing to their ability to circumvent BBB constraints. Bacteria-derived EVs (bEVs) from gut microbiota are efficient transporters that can penetrate the central nervous system. In fact, bEVs can be remodeled via surface modification and CRISPR/Cas editing and, thus, represent a novel platform for conferring protection against infections breaching the BBB. Here, we discuss the latest scientific research related to gut microbiota- and probiotic-derived bEVs, and their therapeutic modifications, in terms of regulating neurotransmitters and inhibiting quorum sensing, for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. We also emphasize the benefits of probiotic-derived bEVs to human health and propose a novel direction for the development of innovative heterologous expression systems to combat BBB-crossing pathogens.


35889124|t|Nasal Microbiota, Olfactory Health, Neurological Disorders and Aging-A Review.
35889124|w|Subramanian Thangaleela; Bhagavathi Sundaram Sivamaruthi; Periyanaina Kesika; Muruganantham Bharathi; Chaiyavat Chaiyasut
35889124|j|Microorganisms
35889124|y|2022
35889124|a|The nasal region is one of the distinct environments for the survival of various microbiota. The human microbial niche begins to inhabit the human body right from birth, and the microbiota survive as commensals or opportunistic pathogens throughout the life of humans in their bodies in various habitats. These microbial communities help to maintain a healthy microenvironment by preventing the attack of pathogens and being involved in immune regulation. Any dysbiosis of microbiota residing in the mucosal surfaces, such as the nasal passages, guts, and genital regions, causes immune modulation and severe infections. The coexistence of microorganisms in the mucosal layers of respiratory passage, resulting in infections due to their co-abundance and interactions, and the background molecular mechanisms responsible for such interactions, need to be considered for investigation. Additional clinical evaluations can explain the interactions among the nasal microbiota, nasal dysbiosis and neurodegenerative diseases (NDs). The respiratory airways usually act as a substratum place for the microbes and can act as the base for respiratory tract infections. The microbial metabolites and the microbes can cross the blood-brain barrier and may cause NDs, such as Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and multiple sclerosis (MS). The scientific investigations on the potential role of the nasal microbiota in olfactory functions and the relationship between their dysfunction and neurological diseases are limited. Recently, the consequences of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) in patients with neurological diseases are under exploration. The crosstalk between the gut and the nasal microbiota is highly influential, because their mucosal regions are the prominent microbial niche and are connected to the olfaction, immune regulation, and homeostasis of the central nervous system. Diet is one of the major factors, which strongly influences the mucosal membranes of the airways, gut, and lung. Unhealthy diet practices cause dysbiosis in gut microbiota and the mucosal barrier. The current review summarizes the interrelationship between the nasal microbiota dysbiosis, resulting olfactory dysfunctions, and the progression of NDs during aging and the involvement of coronavirus disease 2019 in provoking the NDs.


36013962|t|Role of the Gut-Brain Axis, Gut Microbial Composition, Diet, and Probiotic Intervention in Parkinson's Disease.
36013962|w|Subramanian Thangaleela; Bhagavathi Sundaram Sivamaruthi; Periyanaina Kesika; Muruganantham Bharathi; Chaiyavat Chaiyasut
36013962|j|Microorganisms
36013962|y|2022
36013962|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second-most prevalent neurodegenerative or neuropsychiatric disease, affecting 1% of seniors worldwide. The gut microbiota (GM) is one of the key access controls for most diseases and disorders. Disturbance in the GM creates an imbalance in the function and circulation of metabolites, resulting in unhealthy conditions. Any dysbiosis could affect the function of the gut, consequently disturbing the equilibrium in the intestine, and provoking pro-inflammatory conditions in the gut lumen, which send signals to the central nervous system (CNS) through the vagus enteric nervous system, possibly disturbing the blood-brain barrier. The neuroinflammatory conditions in the brain cause accumulation of α-syn, and progressively develop PD. An important aspect of understanding and treating the disease is access to broad knowledge about the influence of dietary supplements on GM. Probiotics are live microorganisms which, when administered in adequate amounts, confer a health benefit on the host. Probiotic supplementation improves the function of the CNS, and improves the motor and non-motor symptoms of PD. Probiotic supplementation could be an adjuvant therapeutic method to manage PD. This review summarizes the role of GM in health, the GM-brain axis, the pathogenesis of PD, the role of GM and diet in PD, and the influence of probiotic supplementation on PD. The study encourages further detailed clinical trials in PD patients with probiotics, which aids in determining the involvement of GM, intestinal mediators, and neurological mediators in the treatment or management of PD.


36619150|t|Gut Microbiota Modification via Glucagon-like Peptide-1 with Beneficial Neuroprotective Effects.
36619150|w|Fatemeh Sayehmiri; Mohammad Samadian; Ashraf Mohamadkhani; Abbas Tafakhori; Somayeh Haghighat; Aryoobarzan Rahmatian; Mohammad Ali Mohammadkhani; Hamid Reza Fazli; Mostafa Rezaei Tavirani
36619150|j|Middle East journal of digestive diseases
36619150|y|2022
36619150|a|<b>BACKGROUND</b>: In recent decades, it has been shown that the association between intestinal bacterial imbalance (dysbiosis) and various diseases such as type 2 diabetes can play a role in the development of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. In this study, the beneficial effects of intestinal microbiota glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) in cognitive disorders were investigated. <b>METHODS</b>: PubMed-Medline, Web of Science, and Scopus were searched to identify experimental studies based on the bacterial strains along with GLP-1 1 expression in preventing or reducing cognitive impairment. Of the 233 studies, six were eligible for inclusion, and the Systematic Review Centre for Laboratory animal Experimentation (SYRCLE) risk of bias tool was used to evaluate the risk of bias in individual studies. <b>RESULTS</b>: The results showed that intestinal expression of GLP-1 1 could reduce the intestinal pathogenic genus such as <i>Enterobacteriaceae</i> and was obviously associated with a greater number of beneficial genera such as <i>Lactobacillus</i> and <i>Akkermansia</i>. Also, the neuroprotective effects of <i>Clostridium butyricum</i> with GLP-1 1 in a mice were approved. Therefore, the modulation of the intestinal microbiota, mediated by an increase in the intestinal GLP-1 1 level, consequently improved cognitive function. <b>CONCLUSION</b>: In this review, we have indicated that the gut microbiota, by stimulating the expression of the intestinal hormones like GLP-1 1, and also with a beneficial effect in inhibiting some involved genes in inflammation, can declined the development of cognitive disorders.


36355147|t|Dysbiosis of Gut Microbiota from the Perspective of the Gut-Brain Axis: Role in the Provocation of Neurological Disorders.
36355147|w|Meenakshi Kandpal; Omkar Indari; Budhadev Baral; Shweta Jakhmola; Deeksha Tiwari; Vasundhra Bhandari; Rajan Kumar Pandey; Kiran Bala; Avinash Sonawane; Hem Chandra Jha
36355147|j|Metabolites
36355147|y|2022
36355147|a|The gut-brain axis is a bidirectional communication network connecting the gastrointestinal tract and central nervous system. The axis keeps track of gastrointestinal activities and integrates them to connect gut health to higher cognitive parts of the brain. Disruption in this connection may facilitate various neurological and gastrointestinal problems. Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by the progressive dysfunction of specific populations of neurons, determining clinical presentation. Misfolded protein aggregates that cause cellular toxicity and that aid in the collapse of cellular proteostasis are a defining characteristic of neurodegenerative proteinopathies. These disorders are not only caused by changes in the neural compartment but also due to other factors of non-neural origin. Mounting data reveal that the majority of gastrointestinal (GI) physiologies and mechanics are governed by the central nervous system (CNS). Furthermore, the gut microbiota plays a critical role in the regulation and physiological function of the brain, although the mechanism involved has not yet been fully interpreted. One of the emerging explanations of the start and progression of many neurodegenerative illnesses is dysbiosis of the gut microbial makeup. The present understanding of the literature surrounding the relationship between intestinal dysbiosis and the emergence of certain neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and multiple sclerosis, is the main emphasis of this review. The potential entry pathway of the pathogen-associated secretions and toxins into the CNS compartment has been explored in this article at the outset of neuropathology. We have also included the possible mechanism of undelaying the synergistic effect of infections, their metabolites, and other interactions based on the current understanding.


35895243|t|Role of the gut-microbiota-metabolite axis in the rotenone model of early-stage Parkinson's Disease.
35895243|w|Zhenzhen Yan; Ruihua Li; Wanying Shi; Lifen Yao
35895243|j|Metabolic brain disease
35895243|y|2022
35895243|a|Gastrointestinal symptoms are common in the early-stage Parkinson's disease (PD), but its potential pathogenesis remains unclear. Therefore, in the present study, we used the 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing and gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry-based metabolomics to investigate the alterations of gut microbiome and serum amino acid levels in the early-stage PD mice model induced with rotenone. The results demonstrated that the microbial taxa at phylum, family and genus levels remarkably altered in rotenone-induced mice relative to vehicle-induced mice. The rotenone-induced mice had higher relative abundance of Flavobacteriaceae, Staphylococcaceae, and Prevotellaceae as well as lower relative abundance of Lachnospiraceae_UCG-001, Ruminiclostridium, and Prevotellaceae_NK3B31_group than vehicle-induced mice. The evaluation of serum amino acids revealed the alterations in several classes of amino acids, including L-proline, L-alanine, L-serine, L-asparagine, L-threonine, L-glutamine, L-methionine, and L-4-hydroxyproline. Notably, the altered serum amino acid levels were significantly associated with the abundance of gut microbiota, especially Ruminococcaceae and Ruminiclostridium. Our study explored the possible role of the gut-microbiota-metabolite axis in the early-stage PD and provided the possibility of prevention and treatment of PD by gut-microbiota-metabolite axis in the future.


36361826|t|Molecular and Cellular Interactions in Pathogenesis of Sporadic Parkinson Disease.
36361826|w|Lyudmila P Dolgacheva; Valery P Zinchenko; Nikolay V Goncharov
36361826|j|International journal of molecular sciences
36361826|y|2022
36361826|a|An increasing number of the population all around the world suffer from age-associated neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease (PD). This disorder presents different signs of genetic, epigenetic and environmental origin, and molecular, cellular and intracellular dysfunction. At the molecular level, α-synuclein (αSyn) was identified as the principal molecule constituting the Lewy bodies (LB). The gut microbiota participates in the pathogenesis of PD and may contribute to the loss of dopaminergic neurons through mitochondrial dysfunction. The most important pathogenetic link is an imbalance of Ca<sup>2+</sup> ions, which is associated with redox imbalance in the cells and increased generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this review, genetic, epigenetic and environmental factors that cause these disorders and their cause-and-effect relationships are considered. As a constituent of environmental factors, the example of organophosphates (OPs) is also reviewed. The role of endothelial damage in the pathogenesis of PD is discussed, and a 'triple hit hypothesis' is proposed as a modification of Braak's dual hit one. In the absence of effective therapies for neurodegenerative diseases, more and more evidence is emerging about the positive impact of nutritional structure and healthy lifestyle on the state of blood vessels and the risk of developing these diseases.


36439235|t|Probiotic <i>Pediococcus pentosaceus</i> ameliorates MPTP-induced oxidative stress <i>via</i> regulating the gut microbiota-gut-brain axis.
36439235|w|Sipei Pan; Hongming Wei; Shushu Yuan; Yu Kong; Huiqun Yang; Yuhe Zhang; Xiaorui Cui; Weian Chen; Jiaming Liu; Yang Zhang
36439235|j|Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology
36439235|y|2022
36439235|a|Recent evidence demonstrated that functional bacteria were involved in the regulation of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the mechanism of probiotics in improving PD was unclear. Here the antioxidant effect and the mechanism of probiotics <i>Pediococcus pentosaceus</i> (PP) on PD were studied by regulating the gut-brain axis. In this study, male C57BL/6J mice were injected with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) intraperitoneally to establish a PD model and were then treated with PP for 4 weeks. Subsequently, a series of neurobehavioral tests to evaluate the motor function of the mice was performed. Additionally, degeneration of dopaminergic neurons, accumulation of α-synuclein, the production of an oxidative stress response, and the expression of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) pathway-related proteins were evaluated. Moreover, the gut microbial composition and the level of metabolite γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were assessed. The results showed that PP treatment could improve MPTP-induced motor deficits, the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons, and the accumulation of α-synuclein. Moreover, PP treatment significantly increased the levels of SOD1, Gpx1, and Nrf2, while it decreased the levels of Keap1 in the brain of MPTP-induced mice. Notably, PP treatment improved the gut microbial dysbiosis and increased the level of GABA in MPTP-induced mice. These findings indicated that PP might represent a promising candidate, due to the metabolite of GABA, that could be used for the treatment of PD.


36504794|t|Reviewing the state of the art of probiotics as clinical modalities for brain-gut-microbiota axis associated disorders.
36504794|w|Cato Wiegers; Mariët A Veerman; Robert Jan Brummer; Olaf F A Larsen
36504794|j|Frontiers in microbiology
36504794|y|2022
36504794|a|The rise in prevalence of mental and neurological disorders is causing a high burden on society, however adequate interventions are not always available. The brain-gut-microbiota axis (BGMA) may provide a new angle for the development of clinical modalities. Due to the intricate bi-directional signaling between the brain and the gut, it may be helpful to look into interventions that target the gut, such as probiotics. Therefore, this review aimed to investigate the state of the art of probiotics and their potential as clinical modalities for BGMA-associated indications by gaining insight into patents and clinical trials that have been applied for and executed since 1999. A total of 565 patents and 390 clinical trials were found, focusing on probiotic applications for 83 indications. Since the start of the 21st century, the highest numbers of patents and clinical trials were related to primary neuropsychological, affective (depression, anxiety) and cognitive disorders, neurodegenerative and/or inflammatory brain disorders (Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amongst others), and gastrointestinal disorders (irritable bowel syndrome). The locations where the most patents and clinical trials were registered included China, the United States, and Iran. From 1999 to ~2013 a slight growth could be seen in the numbers of patents and clinical trials, followed by an almost exponential growth from ~2013 onwards. Overall, the developments of the state of the art were in accordance with previous research, however it appeared that clinical trials showed a slightly slower growth compared to patents, which may have implications for the future implementation of probiotics as clinical modalities for BGMA-associated indications.


36570528|t|The effects of microbiota abundance on symptom severity in Parkinson's disease: A systematic review.
36570528|w|Eliša Papić; Valentino Rački; Mario Hero; Zoran Tomić; Nada Starčević-Čižmarević; Anja Kovanda; Miljenko Kapović; Goran Hauser; Borut Peterlin; Vladimira Vuletić
36570528|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
36570528|y|2022
36570528|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is neurodegenerative disease with a multifactorial etiopathogenesis with accumulating evidence identifying microbiota as a potential factor in the earliest, prodromal phases of the disease. Previous research has already shown a significant difference between gut microbiota composition in PD patients as opposed to healthy controls, with a growing number of studies correlating gut microbiota changes with the clinical presentation of the disease in later stages, through various motor and non-motor symptoms. Our aim in this systematic review is to compose and assess current knowledge in the field and determine if the findings could influence future clinical practice as well as therapy in PD. We have conducted a systematic review according to PRISMA guidelines through MEDLINE and Embase databases, with studies being selected for inclusion via a set inclusion and exclusion criteria. 20 studies were included in this systematic review according to the selected inclusion and exclusion criteria. The search yielded 18 case control studies, 1 case study, and 1 prospective case study with no controls. The total number of PD patients encompassed in the studies cited in this review is 1,511. The link between gut microbiota and neurodegeneration is a complex one and it depends on various factors. The relative abundance of various microbiota taxa in the gut has been consistently shown to have a correlation with motor and non-motor symptom severity. The answer could lie in the products of gut microbiota metabolism which have also been linked to PD. Further research is thus warranted in the field, with a focus on the metabolic function of gut microbiota in relation to motor and non-motor symptoms.


36358513|t|Neurodegenerative Microbially-Shaped Diseases: Oxidative Stress Meets Neuroinflammation.
36358513|w|Diana Filipa Silva; Nuno Empadinhas; Sandra Morais Cardoso; Ana Raquel Esteves
36358513|j|Antioxidants (Basel, Switzerland)
36358513|y|2022
36358513|a|Inflammation and oxidative stress characterize a number of chronic conditions including neurodegenerative diseases and aging. Inflammation is a key component of the innate immune response in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease of which oxidative stress is an important hallmark. Immune dysregulation and mitochondrial dysfunction with concomitant reactive oxygen species accumulation have also been implicated in both diseases, both systemically and within the Central Nervous System. Mitochondria are a centrally positioned signalling hub for inflammatory responses and inflammatory cells can release reactive species at the site of inflammation often leading to exaggerated oxidative stress. A growing body of evidence suggests that disruption of normal gut microbiota composition may induce increased permeability of the gut barrier leading to chronic systemic inflammation, which may, in turn, impair the blood-brain barrier function and promote neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. The gastrointestinal tract is constantly exposed to myriad exogenous substances and microbial pathogens, which are abundant sources of reactive oxygen species, oxidative damage and pro-inflammatory events. Several studies have demonstrated that microbial infections may also affect the balance in gut microbiota composition (involving oxidant and inflammatory processes by the host and indigenous microbiota) and influence downstream Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease pathogenesis, in which blood-brain barrier damage ultimately occurs. Therefore, the oxidant/inflammatory insults triggered by a disrupted gut microbiota and chronic dysbiosis often lead to compromised gut barrier function, allowing inflammation to "escape" as well as uncontrolled immune responses that may ultimately disrupt mitochondrial function upwards the brain. Future therapeutic strategies should be designed to "restrain" gut inflammation, a goal that could ideally be attained by microbiota modulation strategies, in alternative to classic anti-inflammatory agents with unpredictable effects on the microbiota architecture itself.


38098067|t|Parkinson's disease and gut microbiota: from clinical to mechanistic and therapeutic studies.
38098067|w|Xuxiang Zhang; Beisha Tang; Jifeng Guo
38098067|j|Translational neurodegeneration
38098067|y|2023
38098067|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative diseases. The typical symptomatology of PD includes motor symptoms; however, a range of nonmotor symptoms, such as intestinal issues, usually occur before the motor symptoms. Various microorganisms inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract can profoundly influence the physiopathology of the central nervous system through neurological, endocrine, and immune system pathways involved in the microbiota-gut-brain axis. In addition, extensive evidence suggests that the gut microbiota is strongly associated with PD. This review summarizes the latest findings on microbial changes in PD and their clinical relevance, describes the underlying mechanisms through which intestinal bacteria may mediate PD, and discusses the correlations between gut microbes and anti-PD drugs. In addition, this review outlines the status of research on microbial therapies for PD and the future directions of PD-gut microbiota research.


37404311|t|Signalling cognition: the gut microbiota and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
37404311|w|Jody A Rusch; Brian T Layden; Lara R Dugas
37404311|j|Frontiers in endocrinology
37404311|y|2023
37404311|a|Cognitive function in humans depends on the complex and interplay between multiple body systems, including the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. The gut microbiota, which vastly outnumbers human cells and has a genetic potential that exceeds that of the human genome, plays a crucial role in this interplay. The microbiota-gut-brain (MGB) axis is a bidirectional signalling pathway that operates through neural, endocrine, immune, and metabolic pathways. One of the major neuroendocrine systems responding to stress is the HPA axis which produces glucocorticoids such as cortisol in humans and corticosterone in rodents. Appropriate concentrations of cortisol are essential for normal neurodevelopment and function, as well as cognitive processes such as learning and memory, and studies have shown that microbes modulate the HPA axis throughout life. Stress can significantly impact the MGB axis <i>via</i> the HPA axis and other pathways. Animal research has advanced our understanding of these mechanisms and pathways, leading to a paradigm shift in conceptual thinking about the influence of the microbiota on human health and disease. Preclinical and human trials are currently underway to determine how these animal models translate to humans. In this review article, we summarize the current knowledge of the relationship between the gut microbiota, HPA axis, and cognition, and provide an overview of the main findings and conclusions in this broad field.


37892440|t|Gut Microbiota Composition in Patients with Neurodegenerative Disorders (Parkinson's and Alzheimer's) and Healthy Controls: A Systematic Review.
37892440|w|Fatemah Sadeghpour Heravi; Kaveh Naseri; Honghua Hu
37892440|j|Nutrients
37892440|y|2023
37892440|a|This systematic review aims to provide a comprehensive understanding of the current literature regarding gut microbiota composition in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) compared to healthy controls. To identify the relevant studies, a thorough search of PubMed, Medline, and Embase was conducted following the PRISMA guidelines. Out of 5627 articles, 73 studies were assessed for full-text eligibility, which led to the inclusion of 42 studies (26 PD and 16 AD studies). The risk of bias assessment showed a medium risk in 32 studies (20 PD studies and 12 AD studies), a low risk in 9 studies (5 PD studies and 4 AD studies), and 1 PD study with a high risk. Among the PD studies, 22 out of 26 studies reported a different gut microbiota composition between the PD cases and the healthy controls, and 15 out of 16 AD studies reported differences in gut microbiota composition between the AD cases and the healthy controls. The PD and AD studies consistently identified the phyla Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Proteobacteria as prevalent in the gut microbiota in both the healthy groups and the case groups. Microbial dysbiosis was specifically characterized in the PD studies by a high abundance of <i>Akkermansia</i>, <i>Verrucomicrobiaceae</i>, <i>Lachnospiraceae</i>, and <i>Ruminococcaceae</i> in the cases and a high abundance of <i>Blautia</i>, <i>Coprococcus</i>, <i>Prevotellaceae</i>, and <i>Roseburia</i> in the controls. Similarly, Bacteroides and Acidobacteriota were abundant in the AD cases, and <i>Acidaminococcaceae</i>, Firmicutes, <i>Lachnospiraceae</i>, and <i>Ruminiclostridium</i> were abundant in the AD controls. The microbial signature assessment showed the association of several microbial taxa, including <i>Akkermansia</i>, <i>Lachnospiraceae</i>, <i>Verrucomicrobiaceae</i>, <i>Bifidobacterium</i>, <i>Ruminococcacea</i>, and Verrucomicrobia with PD and <i>Ruminococcaceae</i>, <i>Bacteroides</i>, and Actinobacteria with AD. The microbial diversity evaluations in the PD and AD studies indicated comparable alpha diversity in some groups and distinct gut microbiota composition in others, with consistent beta diversity differences between the cases and the controls across multiple studies. The bacterial signatures identified in this study that are associated with PD and AD may offer promising prospects for efficient management and treatment approaches.


38088063|t|Gut microbiota defined epigenomes of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases reveal novel targets for therapy.
38088063|w|Shabnam Nohesara; Hamid Mostafavi Abdolmaleky; Sam Thiagalingam; Jin-Rong Zhou
38088063|j|Epigenomics
38088063|y|2024
38088063|a|The origins of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) involve genetic mutations, epigenetic changes, neurotoxin exposure and gut microbiota dysregulation. The gut microbiota's dynamic composition and its metabolites influence intestinal and blood-brain barrier integrity, contributing to AD and PD development. This review explores protein misfolding, aggregation and epigenetic links in AD and PD pathogenesis. It also highlights the role of a leaky gut and the microbiota-gut-brain axis in promoting these diseases through inflammation-induced epigenetic alterations. In addition, we investigate the potential of diet, probiotics and microbiota transplantation for preventing and treating AD and PD via epigenetic modifications, along with a discussion related to current challenges and future considerations. These approaches offer promise for translating research findings into practical clinical applications.


37600019|t|The gut microbiota-brain axis in neurological disorder.
37600019|w|Hanif Ullah; Safia Arbab; Yali Tian; Chang-Qing Liu; Yuwen Chen; Li Qijie; Muhammad Inayat Ullah Khan; Inam Ul Hassan; Ka Li
37600019|j|Frontiers in neuroscience
37600019|y|2023
37600019|a|The gut microbiota (GM) plays an important role in the physiology and pathology of the host. Microbiota communicate with different organs of the organism by synthesizing hormones and regulating body activity. The interaction of the central nervous system (CNS) and gut signaling pathways includes chemical, neural immune and endocrine routes. Alteration or dysbiosis in the gut microbiota leads to different gastrointestinal tract disorders that ultimately impact host physiology because of the abnormal microbial metabolites that stimulate and trigger different physiologic reactions in the host body. Intestinal dysbiosis leads to a change in the bidirectional relationship between the CNS and GM, which is linked to the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental and neurological disorders. Increasing preclinical and clinical studies/evidence indicate that gut microbes are a possible susceptibility factor for the progression of neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS) and autism spectrum disorder (ASD). In this review, we discuss the crucial connection between the gut microbiota and the central nervous system, the signaling pathways of multiple biological systems and the contribution of gut microbiota-related neurological disorders.


37913731|t|Flavonoids: Their putative neurologic roles, epigenetic changes, and gut microbiota alterations in Parkinson's disease.
37913731|w|Yasemin Açar; Duygu Ağagündüz; Paola De Cicco; Raffaele Capasso
37913731|j|Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie
37913731|y|2023
37913731|a|Parkinson's Disease (PD), a neurodegenerative disorder, is characterized by the degeneration of progressive dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra region of the human midbrain. Although just what causes PD remains a mystery, it is known that oxidative stress (OS) as well as mitochondrial dysfunction, neuro-inflammation, and insufficient neurotrophic support play a role in the disease's pathophysiology. Phytochemicals are a diverse small molecule group derived from plants that can be classified into numerous classes on the basis of their biological activities and chemical structure. Of these groups of phytochemicals, the most abundant, which has well-established anti-Parkinson's effects, are polyphenols. Flavonoids, including naringin and naringenin, genistein, kaempferol, anthocyanins, epigallocatechin-3-gallate, and baicalein are plant-based biologically active polyphenols, which have been shown to exhibit therapeutic potential when used as treatment for a variety of pathological illnesses, such as neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) and PD. Recently, it was reported that flavonoids have beneficial effects on PD, such as the protection of DA neurons, improvement of motor and cognitive abilities, regulation of signaling pathways, and modulation of OS and neuro-inflammation. In addition, by changing the composition of bacteria in gut microbiota, flavonoids reduce pathogenic strains and promote the growth of beneficial strains. In this context, the current paper will provide a literature review on the neurological roles that flavonoids play, as one of the most abundant phytochemical families, in PD.


37823531|t|Role of Bmal1 and Gut Microbiota in Alzheimer's Disease and Parkinson's Disease Pathophysiology: The Probable Effect of Melatonin on Their Association.
37823531|w|Mohammad Rafi Khezri; Ayda Esmaeili; Morteza Ghasemnejad-Berenji
37823531|j|ACS chemical neuroscience
37823531|y|2023
37823531|a|In recent years, the role of new factors in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases has been investigated. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are the most common neurodegenerative diseases worldwide. Although pathological changes such as the accumulation of aggregated proteins in the brain and inflammatory responses are known as the main factors involved in the development of these diseases, new studies show the role of gut microbiota and circadian rhythm in the occurrence of these changes. However, the association between circadian rhythm and gut microbiota in AD and PD has not yet been investigated. Recent results propose that alterations in circadian rhythm regulators, mainly Bmal1, may regulate the abundance of gut microbiota. This correlation has been linked to the regulation of the expression of immune-related genes and Bmal-1 mediated oscillation of IgA and hydrogen peroxide production. These data seem to provide new insight into the molecular mechanism of melatonin inhibiting the progression of AD and PD. Therefore, this manuscript aims to review the role of the gut microbiota and circadian rhythm in health and AD and PD and also presents a hypothesis on the effect of melatonin on their communication.


37967548|t|Gut Frailty: Its Concept and Pathogenesis.
37967548|w|Yuji Naito
37967548|j|Digestion
37967548|y|2024
37967548|a|There is still a considerable gap between average life expectancy and healthy life expectancy in Japan. Recent research has revealed that gut frailty may be a worsening factor for various diseases, a cause of chronic inflammation, and a precursor to frailty. Among self-reported symptoms, constipation is particularly significant as one of the key symptoms of gut frailty. Studies have demonstrated that individuals with constipation have significantly lower survival rates and are also at a higher risk of developing various diseases such as chronic kidney disease, cardiovascular diseases, and neurodegenerative disorders like Parkinson's disease. Various molecular mechanisms could contribute to gut frailty, and the decrease in mucus secretion is an extremely early-stage pathology. Dysbiosis of gut microbiota has a major impact on many conditions associated with gut frailty. Prebiotics, probiotics, post-biotics, and fecal microbiota transplantation are under investigation as a treatment option for gut frailty. Although the concept of gut frailty has not yet gained widespread recognition, we hope to propose more practical screening methods, diagnostic approaches, and specific interventions in the future.


37388445|t|Curcumin alleviates 1-methyl- 4-phenyl- 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine- induced Parkinson's disease in mice via modulating gut microbiota and short-chain fatty acids.
37388445|w|Benchi Cai; Lifan Zhong; Qitong Wang; Wendi Xu; Xi Li; Tao Chen
37388445|j|Frontiers in pharmacology
37388445|y|2023
37388445|a|<b>Background:</b> The microbiota-gut-brain axis has been proposed as a potential therapeutic target of PD. The effects of curcumin against Parkinson's disease have been demonstrated; however, its neuroprotective mechanisms remain unknown. Our study investigated the potential mechanisms through which curcumin ameliorates Parkinson's disease via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. <b>Methods:</b> Mice were randomly divided into four groups: control, Curcumin, MPTP, and MPTP + Curcumin. Motor deficits and gastrointestinal dysfunction were assessed using behavioral test, intestinal motility test, and fecal parameter measurement. The loss of dopaminergic neurons and intestinal barrier function was measured using Western blot and immunofluorescence. Shotgun metagenomic sequencing and LC-MS were parallelly performed on mice feces to investigate alterations in microbiota and metabolites. <b>Results:</b> Curcumin alleviated motor deficits and the loss of dopaminergic neurons in MPTP-induced mice. Curcumin ameliorated gastrointestinal and intestinal barrier dysfunctions in MPTP-induced mice. Curcumin reduced gut microbial dysbiosis and modulated carbohydrate metabolism in MPTP-induced mice. Curcumin restored short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) profiles in MPTP-induced mice. <b>Conclusion:</b> Concurrently, these results indicate that curcumin inhibits Parkinson's disease by regulating the gut microbiota and short-chain fatty acids.


37423520|t|Alterations of gut microbiota and its correlation with the liver metabolome in the process of ameliorating Parkinson's disease with Buyang Huanwu decoction.
37423520|w|Jianran Hu; Ping Li; Hongmei Zhao; Pengyu Ji; Yanjun Yang; Jianhua Ma; Xin Zhao
37423520|j|Journal of ethnopharmacology
37423520|y|2024
37423520|a|Buyang Huanwu decoction (BHD), a famous traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formula, was first recorded in Qing Dynasty physician Qingren Wang's Yi Lin Gai Cuo. BHD has been widely utilized in the treatment of patients with neurological disorders, including Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the underlying mechanism has not been fully elucidated. In particular, little is known about the role of gut microbiota. We aimed to reveal the alterations and functions of gut microbiota and its correlation with the liver metabolome in the process of improving PD with BHD. The cecal contents were collected from PD mice treated with or without BHD. 16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed on an Illumina MiSeq-PE250 platform, and the ecological structure, dominant taxa, co-occurrence patterns, and function prediction of the gut microbial community were analyzed by multivariate statistical methods. The correlation between differential microbial communities in the gut and differentially accumulated metabolites in the liver was analyzed using Spearman's correlation analysis. The abundance of Butyricimonas, Christensenellaceae, Coprococcus, Peptococcaceae, Odoribacteraceae, and Roseburia was altered significantly in the model group, which was by BHD. Ten genera, namely Dorea, unclassified_Lachnospiraceae, Oscillospira, unidentified_Ruminococcaceae, unclassified_Clostridiales, unidentified_Clostridiales, Bacteroides, unclassified_Prevotellaceae, unidentified_Rikenellaceae, and unidentified_S24-7, were identified as key bacterial communities. According to the function prediction of differential genera, the mRNA surveillance pathway might be a target of BHD. Integrated analysis of gut microbiota and the liver metabolome revealed that several gut microbiota genera such as Parabacteroides, Ochrobactrum, Acinetobacter, Clostridium, and Halomonas, were positively or negatively correlated with some nervous system-related metabolites, such as L-carnitine, L-pyroglutamic acid, oleic acid, and taurine. Gut microbiota might be a target of BHD in the process of ameliorating PD. Our findings provide novel insight into the mechanisms underlying the effects of BHD on PD and contribute to the development of TCM.


37819112|t|Gut microbiota-associated taurine metabolism dysregulation in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease.
37819112|w|Can Cui; Huan Song; Yingying Han; Hongxiang Yu; Hongxia Li; Yumei Yang; Bei Zhang
37819112|j|mSphere
37819112|y|2023
37819112|a|PD is recognized as a multisystem disease concerning GI dysfunction and microbiota dysbiosis but still lacks ideal therapies. Recently, aberrant microbiota-derived metabolites are emerging as important participants in PD etiology. However, the alterations of gut microbiota community and serum untargeted metabolite profile have not been fully investigated in a PD mice model. Here, we discover sharply reduced levels of <i>Lactobacillus</i> and taurine in MPTP-treated mice. Moreover, <i>Lactobacillus</i>, <i>Adlercreutzia</i>, and taurine-related metabolites showed the most significant correlation with pathological and GI performance of PD mice. The abundances of microbial transporter and enzymes participating in the degeneration of taurine were disturbed in PD mice. Most importantly, taurine supplement ameliorates MPTP-induced motor deficits, DA neuron loss, and microglial activation. Our data highlight the impaired taurine-based microbiome-metabolism axis during the progression of PD and reveal a novel and previously unrecognized role of genera in modulating taurine metabolism.


37736791|t|The link between the gut microbiome, inflammation, and Parkinson's disease.
37736791|w|Shiqing Nie; Yuan Ge
37736791|j|Applied microbiology and biotechnology
37736791|y|2023
37736791|a|As our society ages, the growing number of people with Parkinson's disease (PD) puts tremendous pressure on our society. Currently, there is no effective treatment for PD, so there is an urgent need to find new treatment options. In recent years, increasing studies have shown a strong link between gut microbes and PD. In this review, recent advances in research on gut microbes in PD patients were summarized. Increased potential pro-inflammatory microbes and decreased potential anti-inflammatory microbes are prominent features of gut microbiota in PD patients. These changes may lead to an increase in pro-inflammatory substances (such as lipopolysaccharide and H<sub>2</sub>S) and a decrease in anti-inflammatory substances (such as short-chain fatty acids) to promote inflammation in the gut. This gut microbiota-mediated inflammation will lead to pathological α-synuclein accumulation in the gut, and the inflammation and α-synuclein can spread to the brain via the microbiota-gut-brain axis, thereby promoting neuroinflammation, apoptosis of dopaminergic neurons, and ultimately the development of PD. This review also showed that therapies based on gut microbiota may have a bright future for PD. However, more research and new approaches are still needed to clarify the causal relationship between gut microbes and PD and to determine whether therapies based on gut microbiota are effective in PD patients. KEY POINTS: • There is a strong association between gut microbes and PD. • Inflammation mediated by gut microbes may promote the development of PD. • Therapies based on the gut microbiome provide a promising strategy for PD prevention.


37620311|t|Gut microbiota and fecal short chain fatty acids differ with adiposity and country of origin: the METS-microbiome study.
37620311|w|Gertrude Ecklu-Mensah; Candice Choo-Kang; Maria Gjerstad Maseng; Sonya Donato; Pascal Bovet; Bharathi Viswanathan; Kweku Bedu-Addo; Jacob Plange-Rhule; Prince Oti Boateng; Terrence E Forrester; Marie Williams; Estelle V Lambert; Dale Rae; Nandipha Sinyanya; Amy Luke; Brian T Layden; Stephen O'Keefe; Jack A Gilbert; Lara R Dugas
37620311|j|Nature communications
37620311|y|2023
37620311|a|The relationship between microbiota, short chain fatty acids (SCFAs), and obesity remains enigmatic. We employ amplicon sequencing and targeted metabolomics in a large (n = 1904) African origin cohort from Ghana, South Africa, Jamaica, Seychelles, and the US. Microbiota diversity and fecal SCFAs are greatest in Ghanaians, and lowest in Americans, representing each end of the urbanization spectrum. Obesity is significantly associated with a reduction in SCFA concentration, microbial diversity, and SCFA synthesizing bacteria, with country of origin being the strongest explanatory factor. Diabetes, glucose state, hypertension, obesity, and sex can be accurately predicted from the global microbiota, but when analyzed at the level of country, predictive accuracy is only universally maintained for sex. Diabetes, glucose, and hypertension are only predictive in certain low-income countries. Our findings suggest that adiposity-related microbiota differences differ between low-to-middle-income compared to high-income countries. Further investigation is needed to determine the factors driving this association.


37807941|t|The gut microbiota metabolite butyrate mitigates MPTP/MPP<sup>+</sup> -induced Parkinson's disease by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway.
37807941|w|Li-Li Ji; Ting-Ting Huang; Lun-Lin Mao; Yuan-Feng Xu; Wen-Ya Chen; Wei-Wei Wang; Li-Hui Wang
37807941|j|The Kaohsiung journal of medical sciences
37807941|y|2023
37807941|a|Butyrate (BU), a gut microbiota-derived metabolite, has been reported to play a neuroprotective role in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the specific molecular mechanism of BU has not been fully interpreted. This work aimed to verify the protective effects of BU against MPTP/MPP<sup>+</sup> -induced neurotoxicity and explore the mechanisms involved. The results showed that BU protected against MPTP-induced motor dysfunction and decreased tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter (DAT) levels. Additionally, BU pretreatment improved PC12 cell viability and reduced MPP<sup>+</sup> -induced PC12 cell apoptosis. BU treatment also attenuated MPP<sup>+</sup> -stimulated oxidative stress and inflammatory response in PC12 cells. Furthermore, BU inhibited MPTP/MPP<sup>+</sup> -induced hyperactivation of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling in mice and PC12 cells. Besides, a JAK2 agonist, Coumermycin A1 (C-A1), substantially reversed BU-mediated inhibition on JAK2/STAT3 phosphorylation in MPP<sup>+</sup> -challenged PC12 cells and abated BU-induced repression on MPP<sup>+</sup> -triggered apoptosis, oxidative stress, and inflammatory response in PC12 cells. To sum up, BU might exert neuroprotective effects against MPP<sup>+</sup> /MPTP-induced neurotoxicity by inactivating the JAK2/STAT3 signaling.


37332996|t|A review of studies on gut microbiota and levodopa metabolism.
37332996|w|Zhe Zhong; Min Ye; Fuling Yan
37332996|j|Frontiers in neurology
37332996|y|2023
37332996|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease globally. Levodopa (L-dopa) has been the cornerstone for treating Parkinson's since the 1960s. However, complications such as "wearing-off" and dyskinesia inevitably appear with disease progression. With the further development of microbiomics in recent years, It has been recognized that gut microbiota plays a crucial role in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis. However, Little is known about the impact of gut microbiota in PD treatment, especially in levodopa metabolism. This review examines the possible mechanisms of gut microbiota, such as <i>Helicobacter pylori</i>, <i>Enterobacter faecalis</i>, and <i>Clostridium sporogenes,</i> affecting L-dopa absorption. Furthermore, we review the current status of gut microbiota intervention strategies, providing new insights into the treatment of PD.


37502423|t|Exploring the alteration of gut microbiota and brain function in gender-specific Parkinson's disease based on metagenomic sequencing.
37502423|w|Minna Zhang; Zhiyuan Zhai; Bo Yang; Le He; Jingyi Wang; Weijie Dai; Liujun Xue; Xiaozhong Yang; Yun Feng; Honggang Wang
37502423|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
37502423|y|2023
37502423|a|The role of the microbiota-gut-brain axis in Parkinson's disease (PD) has received increasing attention. Although gender differences are known to an essential role in the epidemiology and clinical course of PD, there are no studies on the sex specificity of the microbiota-gut-brain axis in the development and progression of PD. Fresh fecal samples from 24 PD patients (13 males, 11 females) were collected for metagenomic sequencing. The composition and function of the gut microbiota were analyzed by resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Gender-dependent differences in brain ALFF values and their correlation with microbiota were further analyzed. The relative abundance of <i>Propionivibrio</i>, <i>Thermosediminibacter</i>, and <i>Flavobacteriaceae_noname</i> was increased in male PD patients. LEfse analysis showed that <i>Verrucomicrobial</i>, <i>Akkermansiaceae</i>, and <i>Akkermansia</i> were dominant in the males. In female patients, the relative abundance of <i>Propionicicella</i> was decreased and <i>Escherichia</i>, <i>Escherichia_coli</i>, and <i>Lachnospiraceae</i> were predominant. The expression of the sesquiterpenoid and triterpenoid biosynthesis pathways was increased in male PD patients and was statistically different from females. Compared to the Male PD patients, female patients showed decreased ALFF values in the left inferior parietal regions, and the relative abundance of <i>Propionivibrio</i> was positively correlated with the regional ALFF values. Our study provides novel clinical evidence of the gender-specific relationship between gut microbiota alterations and brain function in PD patients, highlighting the critical role of the microbiota-gut-brain axis in gender differences in PD.


38237261|t|Rubusoside mitigates neuroinflammation and cellular apoptosis in Parkinson's disease, and alters gut microbiota and metabolite composition.
38237261|w|Tianyu Meng; Yufei Zhang; Jing Huang; Vijay Pandey; Shoupeng Fu; Shaohua Ma
38237261|j|Phytomedicine : international journal of phytotherapy and phytopharmacology
38237261|y|2024
38237261|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative condition characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons within the substantia nigra. Neuroinflammation plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of PD, involving the activation of microglia cells, heightened production of proinflammatory cytokines, and perturbations in the composition of the gut microbiota. Rubusoside (Ru), the principal steviol bisglucoside present in Rubus chingii var. suavissimus (S.K.Lee) L.T.Lu (Rosaceae), has been documented for its anti-inflammatory properties in diverse disease models. Nonetheless, there is an imperative need to comprehensively assess and elucidate the protective and anti-inflammatory attributes of Ru concerning PD, as well as to uncover the underlying mechanism involved. The aim of this study is to evaluate the neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects of Ru on PD and investigate its potential mechanisms associated with microbes. We pre-treated mice and cell lines with Ru in order to simulate the progression of PD and the neuroinflammatory state. The mouse model was induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), SN4741 cells were induced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (mpp<sup>+</sup>), and BV-2 cells were induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We assessed the impact of Ru on motor function, neuroinflammation, neuron apoptosis, the composition of gut microbes, and their metabolites. Ru treatment reduces the release of pro-inflammatory mediators by inhibiting microglia activation. It also prevents neuronal apoptosis, thereby safeguarding dopaminergic neurons and ameliorating motor dysfunction. Furthermore, it induces alterations in the fecal microbiota composition and metabolites profile in PD mice. In vitro experiments have demonstrated that Ru inhibits neuronal apoptosis in SN4741 cells induced by mpp<sup>+</sup>, suppresses the production of pro-inflammatory mediators, and activates the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK), and nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) signaling pathways. Ru exhibits inhibitory effects on the MPTP-induced PD model by mitigating neuroinflammation and neuronal apoptosis while also inducing changes in the gut microbiota and metabolite composition.


38022117|t|The Role of Gut Microbiota in Neurodegenerative Diseases: Current Insights and Therapeutic Implications.
38022117|w|Arpit Jain; Suryansh Madkan; Praful Patil
38022117|j|Cureus
38022117|y|2023
38022117|a|Small microscopic entities known as microbes, having a population of hundreds of billions or perhaps even in trillions, reside in our gastrointestinal tract. A healthy immune system, digestion, and creation of vitamins and enzymes are all thanks to these microbes. However, new research has shown a hitherto unrecognized connection between the microbiota of the intestines and the genesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Neurons in the CNS gradually deteriorate in neurodegenerative illnesses like multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's disease (PD). This deterioration impairs cognitive and physical function. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), PD, and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are just a few examples of neurodegenerative illnesses that pose a serious threat to world health and have few effective treatments. Recent research suggests that the gut microbiota, a diverse microbial population found in the gastrointestinal system, may substantially impact the cause and development of various diseases. The discovery of altered gut microbiota composition in people with these illnesses is one of the most critical lines of evidence connecting gut microbiota dysbiosis to neurodegenerative diseases. AD patients have a distinct characteristic of having a particular microbiota profile. In addition, an excess population of a specific microbe data profile is seen as compared to a healthy individual. Similar changes in the gut microbiota composition have been noted in people with multiple sclerosis and PD. The latest study indicates the potential that dysbiosis, a condition characterized by alteration in the intestinal microbiota's makeup and functioning, may have an effect on the onset and progression of neurodegenerative diseases, including PD and multiple sclerosis. In order to emphasize any potential underlying mechanisms and examine potential treatment repercussions, the review article's goal is to summarize current knowledge about the connection between gut microbiota and neurodegenerative disorders. The review article aims to summarize current knowledge about the connection between gut microbiota and neurodegenerative disorders, highlighting potential underlying mechanisms and examining potential treatment repercussions.


37200942|t|Ketogenic diet protects MPTP-induced mouse model of Parkinson's disease via altering gut microbiota and metabolites.
37200942|w|Ziying Jiang; Xinyu Wang; Haoqiang Zhang; Jian Yin; Peiqing Zhao; Qingqing Yin; Zhenfu Wang
37200942|j|MedComm
37200942|y|2023
37200942|a|The ketogenic diet (KD) is a low-carbohydrate, high-fat regime that is protective against neurodegenerative diseases. However, the impact of KD on Parkinson's disease (PD) and its mechanisms remains unclear. 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced mouse model of PD was fed with KD for 8 weeks. Motor function and dopaminergic neurons were evaluated. Inflammation in the brain, plasma, and colon tissue were also measured. Fecal samples were assessed by 16S rDNA gene sequencing and untargeted metabolomics. We found that KD protected motor dysfunction, dopaminergic neuron loss, and inflammation in an MPTP mouse model of PD. 16S rDNA sequencing revealed that MPTP administration significantly increased <i>Citrobacter</i>, <i>Desulfovibrio</i>, and <i>Ruminococcus</i>, and decreased <i>Dubosiella</i>, whereas KD treatment reversed the dysbiosis. Meanwhile, KD regulated the MPTP-induced histamine, N-acetylputrescine, d-aspartic acid, and other metabolites. Fecal microbiota transplantation using feces from the KD-treated mice attenuated the motor function impairment and dopaminergic neuron loss in antibiotic-pretreated PD mice. Our current study demonstrates that KD played a neuroprotective role in the MPTP mouse model of PD through the diet-gut microbiota-brain axis, which may involve inflammation in the brain and colon. However, future research is warranted to explore the explicit anti-inflammatory mechanisms of the gut-brain axis in PD models fed with KD.


37323141|t|Effects of gut microbiota on neurodegenerative diseases.
37323141|w|Saima Khatoon; Nida Kalam; Summya Rashid; Gulnaz Bano
37323141|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
37323141|y|2023
37323141|a|A progressive degradation of the brain's structure and function, which results in a reduction in cognitive and motor skills, characterizes neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Huntington's disease (HD). The morbidity linked to NDs is growing, which poses a severe threat to human being's mental and physical ability to live well. The gut-brain axis (GBA) is now known to have a crucial role in the emergence of NDs. The gut microbiota is a conduit for the GBA, a two-way communication system between the gut and the brain. The myriad microorganisms that make up the gut microbiota can affect brain physiology by transmitting numerous microbial chemicals from the gut to the brain <i>via</i> the GBA or neurological system. The synthesis of neurotransmitters, the immunological response, and the metabolism of lipids and glucose have all been demonstrated to be impacted by alterations in the gut microbiota, such as an imbalance of helpful and harmful bacteria. In order to develop innovative interventions and clinical therapies for NDs, it is crucial to comprehend the participation of the gut microbiota in these conditions. In addition to using antibiotics and other drugs to target particular bacterial species that may be a factor in NDs, this also includes using probiotics and other fecal microbiota transplantation to maintain a healthy gut microbiota. In conclusion, the examination of the GBA can aid in understanding the etiology and development of NDs, which may benefit the improvement of clinical treatments for these disorders and ND interventions. This review indicates existing knowledge about the involvement of microbiota present in the gut in NDs and potential treatment options.


36692876|t|Causal effect of gut-microbiota-derived metabolite trimethylamine N-oxide on Parkinson's disease: A Mendelian randomization study.
36692876|w|Hang Zhou; Yuqi Luo; Wenjie Zhang; Fen Xie; Chao Deng; Wenhua Zheng; Shuzhen Zhu; Qing Wang
36692876|j|European journal of neurology
36692876|y|2023
36692876|a|It has been suggested that trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) is related to Parkinson's disease (PD) in observational studies. However, the direction of this association is inconsistent. An exploratory Mendelian randomization study was conducted to investigate whether TMAO and its precursors have a causal relationship with PD. Summary statistics were obtained for single nucleotide polymorphisms related to circulating levels of TMAO, betaine, carnitine and choline, and the corresponding data for the risk, age at onset and progression of PD from genome-wide association studies. Inverse-variance weighting was used as the primary method for effect estimation. The false discovery rate was applied to the correction of multiple testing. A p value of association <0.05 but above the false discovery rate corrected threshold was deemed suggestive evidence of a possible association. A range of robust Mendelian randomization methods were used for sensitivity analysis. Suggestive evidence was observed of an inverse causal effect of TMAO on motor fluctuations (odds ratio [OR] 0.851, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.731, 0.990, p = 0.037) and carnitine on insomnia (OR 0.817, 95% CI 0.700, 0.954, p = 0.010) and a positive causal effect of betaine on Hoehn-Yahr stage (OR 1.397, 95% CI 1.112, 1.756, p = 0.004), Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) III score (β = 0.138, 95% CI 0.051, 0.225, p = 0.002), motor fluctuations (OR 1.236, 95% CI 1.011, 1.511, p = 0.039), and choline on UPDRS IV (β = 0.106, 95% CI 0.026, 0.185, p = 0.009) and modified Schwab and England Activities of Daily Living Scale score (β = 0.806, 95% CI 0.127, 1.484, p = 0.020). Our findings provide suggestive evidence that TMAO and its precursors have a causal effect on the progression of PD. Further investigation of the underlying mechanisms is required.


38127816|t|Autophagic dysfunction and gut microbiota dysbiosis cause chronic immune activation in a Drosophila model of Gaucher disease.
38127816|w|Magda L Atilano; Alexander Hull; Catalina-Andreea Romila; Mirjam L Adams; Jacob Wildfire; Enric Ureña; Miranda Dyson; Jorge Ivan-Castillo-Quan; Linda Partridge; Kerri J Kinghorn
38127816|j|PLoS genetics
38127816|y|2023
38127816|a|Mutations in the GBA1 gene cause the lysosomal storage disorder Gaucher disease (GD) and are the greatest known genetic risk factors for Parkinson's disease (PD). Communication between the gut and brain and immune dysregulation are increasingly being implicated in neurodegenerative disorders such as PD. Here, we show that flies lacking the Gba1b gene, the main fly orthologue of GBA1, display widespread NF-kB signalling activation, including gut inflammation, and brain glial activation. We also demonstrate intestinal autophagic defects, gut dysfunction, and microbiome dysbiosis. Remarkably, modulating the microbiome of Gba1b knockout flies, by raising them under germ-free conditions, partially ameliorates lifespan, locomotor and immune phenotypes. Moreover, we show that modulation of the immune deficiency (IMD) pathway is detrimental to the survival of Gba1 deficient flies. We also reveal that direct stimulation of autophagy by rapamycin treatment achieves similar benefits to germ-free conditions independent of gut bacterial load. Consistent with this, we show that pharmacologically blocking autophagosomal-lysosomal fusion, mimicking the autophagy defects of Gba1 depleted cells, is sufficient to stimulate intestinal immune activation. Overall, our data elucidate a mechanism whereby an altered microbiome, coupled with defects in autophagy, drive chronic activation of NF-kB signaling in a Gba1 loss-of-function model. It also highlights that elimination of the microbiota or stimulation of autophagy to remove immune mediators, rather than prolonged immunosuppression, may represent effective therapeutic avenues for GBA1-associated disorders.


37334756|t|Fibroblast growth factor 21 ameliorates behavior deficits in Parkinson's disease mouse model via modulating gut microbiota and metabolic homeostasis.
37334756|w|Changwei Yang; Wuqiong Wang; Pengxi Deng; Xinyi Wang; Lin Zhu; Liangcai Zhao; Chen Li; Hongchang Gao
37334756|j|CNS neuroscience & therapeutics
37334756|y|2023
37334756|a|The effects of FGF21 on Parkinson's disease (PD) and its relationship with gut microbiota have not been elucidated. This study aimed to investigate whether FGF21 would attenuate behavioral impairment through microbiota-gut-brain metabolic axis in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) induced PD mice model. Male C57BL/6 mice were rendomized into 3 groups: vehicle (CON); MPTP 30 mg/kg/day i.p. injection (MPTP); FGF21 1.5 mg/kg/d i.p. injection plus MPTP 30 mg/kg/day i.p. injection (FGF21 + MPTP). The behavioral features, metabolimics profiling, and 16 s rRNA sequencing were performed after FGF21 treatment for 7 days. MPTP-induced PD mice showed motor and cognitive deficits accompanied by gut microbiota dysbiosis and brain-region-specific metabolic abnormalities. FGF21 treatment dramatically attenuated motor and cognitive dysfunction in PD mice. FGF21 produced a region-specific alteration in the metabolic profile in the brain in ways indicative of greater ability in neurotransmitter metabolism and choline production. In addition, FGF21 also re-structured the gut microbiota profile and increased the relative abundance of Clostridiales, Ruminococcaceae, and Lachnospiraceae, thereby rescuing the PD-induced metabolic disorders in the colon. These findings indicate that FGF21 could affect behavior and brain metabolic homeostasis in ways that promote a favorable colonic microbiota composition and through effects on the microbiota-gut-brain metabolic axis.


37049578|t|<i>Lactobacillus plantarum</i> CCFM405 against Rotenone-Induced Parkinson's Disease Mice via Regulating Gut Microbiota and Branched-Chain Amino Acids Biosynthesis.
37049578|w|Chuanqi Chu; Leilei Yu; Yiwen Li; Hang Guo; Qixiao Zhai; Wei Chen; Fengwei Tian
37049578|j|Nutrients
37049578|y|2023
37049578|a|Recent studies have demonstrated that disturbances in the gut microbiota and microbiota -derived metabolites contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), suggesting that probiotic treatments that restore them may delay disease progression. This study aimed to examine the attenuating efficacy of <i>L. plantarum</i> CCFM405 and the potential mechanisms in mice with rotenone-induced PD. Our results indicate that <i>L. plantarum</i> CCFM405 ameliorated rotenone-induced motor deficits and constipation, decreased dopaminergic neuronal death, reduced intestinal inflammation and neuroinflammation, and raised dopamine levels, 5-HT, and associated metabolites in the striatal region of the brain in mice with PD. Sequencing of 16S rRNA from fecal microbiota revealed that <i>L. plantarum</i> CCFM405 normalized the gut bacterial composition in mice with PD, as evidenced by the increased relative abundance of the following genus, <i>Bifidobacterium</i>, <i>Turicibacter</i>, and <i>Faecalibaculum</i>, and decreased relative abundance of <i>Alistipes</i>, <i>Bilophila</i>, <i>Akkermansia</i>, and <i>Escherichia-Shigella</i>. The PICRUSt-predicted gut microbiota function revealed that <i>L. plantarum</i> CCFM405 enhanced the biosynthesis of amino acid pathways, particularly valine, leucine, and isoleucine (branched-chain amino acids, BCAAs). A non-metabolomic analysis of the serum and feces showed that <i>L. plantarum</i> CCFM405 markedly increased the levels of BCAAs. Pathway enrichment analysis based on the KEGG database further suggested that <i>L. plantarum</i> CCFM405 supplementation can promote BCAAs biosynthesis. Collectively, <i>L. plantarum</i> CCFM405 can help to prevent rotenone-induced PD by modulating the gut microbiota-metabolite axis. BCAAs may play a dominant role in <i>L. plantarum</i> CCFM405-associated neuroprotection in PD mice. This probiotic could be utilized as a potential food supplement in the management of PD.


36761177|t|Sodium butyrate ameliorates gut dysfunction and motor deficits in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease by regulating gut microbiota.
36761177|w|Yi Zhang; Shaoqing Xu; Yiwei Qian; Chengjun Mo; Penghui Ai; Xiaodong Yang; Qin Xiao
36761177|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
36761177|y|2023
36761177|a|A growing body of evidence showed that gut microbiota dysbiosis might be associated with the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Microbiota-targeted interventions could play a protective role in PD by regulating the gut microbiota-gut-brain axis. Sodium butyrate (NaB) could improve gut microbiota dysbiosis in PD and other neuropsychiatric disorders. However, the potential mechanism associated with the complex interaction between NaB and gut microbiota-gut-brain communication in PD needs further investigation. C57BL/6 mice were subjected to a rotenone-induced PD model and were treated intragastrically with NaB for 4 weeks. The gut function and motor function were evaluated. The α-synuclein expression in colon and substantia nigra were detected by western blotting. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons in substantia nigra were measured by immunofluorescence. Moreover, gut microbiota composition was analyzed by 16S rRNA sequencing. Fecal short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) levels were determined by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS). The levels of glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP-1) in tissues and serum were evaluated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). NaB ameliorated gut dysfunction and motor deficits in rotenone-induced mice. Meanwhile, NaB protected against rotenone-induced α-synuclein expression in colon and substantia nigra, and prevented the loss of TH-positive neurons. In addition, NaB could remodel gut microbiota composition, and regulate gut SCFAs metabolism, and restore GLP-1 levels in colon, serum, and substantia nigra in PD mice. NaB could ameliorate gut dysfunction and motor deficits in rotenone-induced PD mice, and the mechanism might be associated with the regulation of gut microbiota dysbiosis.


37460569|t|Association of fecal short-chain fatty acids with clinical severity and gut microbiota in essential tremor and its difference from Parkinson's disease.
37460569|w|Pei Huang; Pingchen Zhang; Juanjuan Du; Chao Gao; Jin Liu; Yuyan Tan; Shengdi Chen
37460569|j|NPJ Parkinson's disease
37460569|y|2023
37460569|a|Diagnosis of essential tremor (ET) at an early stage can be difficult, especially when distinguishing it from healthy controls (HCs) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Recently, stool sample analysis of gut microbiota and its metabolites provides new ways to detect novel biomarkers for neurodegenerative diseases. Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), as the main metabolites of gut microbiota, were reduced in the feces of PD. However, fecal SCFAs in ET have never been investigated. We aimed to investigate the fecal SCFA levels in ET, assess their relationships with clinical symptoms and gut microbiota, and identify their potential diagnostic abilities. Fecal SCFAs and gut microbiota in 37 ET, 37 de novo PD and 35 HC were measured. Constipation, autonomic dysfunction and tremor severity were evaluated by scales. ET had lower fecal propionic, butyric and isobutyric acid levels than HC. Combined propionic, butyric and isobutyric acid distinguished ET from HC with an AUC of 0.751 (95% CI: 0.634-0.867). ET had lower fecal isovaleric and isobutyric acid levels than PD. Isovaleric and isobutyric acid differentiated ET from PD with an AUC of 0.743 (95% CI: 0.629-0.857). Fecal propionic acid was negatively correlated with constipation and autonomic dysfunction. Isobutyric and isovaleric acid were negatively associated with tremor severity. Lowered fecal SCFAs were related to a decreased abundance of Faecalibacterium and Catenibacterium in ET. In conclusion, fecal SCFAs were decreased in ET and correlated with clinical severity and gut microbiota changes. Fecal propionic, butyric, isobutyric and isovaleric acid might be potential diagnostic and differential diagnostic biomarkers for ET.


37754772|t|The impact of Parkinson's disease-associated gut microbiota on the transcriptome in <i>Drosophila</i>.
37754772|w|Xin Liu; Meng Yang; Runzhou Liu; Fan Zhou; Haibing Zhu; Xiaoyun Wang
37754772|j|Microbiology spectrum
37754772|y|2023
37754772|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease in middle-aged and elderly people, and many studies have confirmed that the disorder of gut microbiota is involved in the pathophysiological process of PD. However, the molecular mechanism of gut microbiota in regulating the pathogenesis of PD is still lacking. In this study, to investigate the impact of PD-associated gut microbiota on host transcriptome, we established various PD models with fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) in the model organism <i>Drosophila</i> followed by integrative data analysis of microbiome and transcriptome. We first constructed rotenone-induced PD models in <i>Drosophila</i> followed by FMT in different groups. Microbial analysis by 16S rDNA sequencing showed that gut microbiota from PD <i>Drosophila</i> could affect bacterial structure of normal <i>Drosophila</i>, and gut microbiota from normal <i>Drosophila</i> could affect bacterial structure of PD <i>Drosophila</i>. Transcriptome analysis revealed that PD-associated gut microbiota influenced expression patterns of genes enriched in neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, lysosome, and diverse metabolic pathways. Importantly, to verify our findings, we transplanted <i>Drosophila</i> with fecal samples from clinical PD patients. Compared to the control, <i>Drosophila</i> transplanted with fecal samples from PD patients had reduced microbiota <i>Acetobacter</i> and <i>Lactobacillus</i>, and differentially expressed genes enriched in diverse metabolic pathways. In summary, our results reveal the influence of PD-associated gut microbiota on host gene expression, and this study can help better understand the link between gut microbiota and PD pathogenesis through gut-brain axis. IMPORTANCE Gut microbiota plays important roles in regulating host gene expression and physiology through complex mechanisms. Recently, it has been suggested that disorder of gut microbiota is involved in the pathophysiological process of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the molecular mechanism of gut microbiota in regulating the pathogenesis of PD is still lacking. In this study, to investigate the impact of PD-associated gut microbiota on host transcriptome, we established various PD models with fecal microbiota transplantation in the model organism <i>Drosophila</i> followed by integrative data analysis of microbiome and transcriptome. We also verified our findings by transplanting <i>Drosophila</i> with fecal samples from clinical PD patients. Our results demonstrated that PD-associated gut microbiota can induce differentially expressed genes enriched in diverse metabolic pathways. This study can help better understand the link between gut microbiota and PD pathogenesis through gut-brain axis.


37863655|t|Regulation of Pain Perception by Microbiota in Parkinson Disease.
37863655|w|Zulmary Manjarres; Margarita Calvo; Rodrigo Pacheco
37863655|j|Pharmacological reviews
37863655|y|2023
37863655|a|Pain perception involves current stimulation in peripheral nociceptive nerves and the subsequent stimulation of postsynaptic excitatory neurons in the spinal cord. Importantly, in chronic pain, the neural activity of both peripheral nociceptors and postsynaptic neurons in the central nervous system is influenced by several inflammatory mediators produced by the immune system. Growing evidence has indicated that the commensal microbiota plays an active role in regulating pain perception by either acting directly on nociceptors or indirectly through the modulation of the inflammatory activity on immune cells. This symbiotic relationship is mediated by soluble bacterial mediators or intrinsic structural components of bacteria that act on eukaryotic cells, including neurons, microglia, astrocytes, macrophages, T cells, enterochromaffin cells, and enteric glial cells. The molecular mechanisms involve bacterial molecules that act directly on neurons, affecting their excitability, or indirectly on non-neuronal cells, inducing changes in the production of proinflammatory or anti-inflammatory mediators. Importantly, Parkinson disease, a neurodegenerative and inflammatory disorder that affects mainly the dopaminergic neurons implicated in the control of voluntary movements, involves not only a motor decline but also nonmotor symptomatology, including chronic pain. Of note, several recent studies have shown that Parkinson disease involves a dysbiosis in the composition of the gut microbiota. In this review, we first summarize, integrate, and classify the molecular mechanisms implicated in the microbiota-mediated regulation of chronic pain. Second, we analyze the changes on the commensal microbiota associated to Parkinson disease and propose how these changes affect the development of chronic pain in this pathology. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: The microbiota regulates chronic pain through the action of bacterial signals into two main locations: the peripheral nociceptors and the postsynaptic excitatory neurons in the spinal cord. The dysbiosis associated to Parkinson disease reveals increased representation of commensals that potentially exacerbate chronic pain and reduced levels of bacteria with beneficial effects on pain. This review encourages further research to better understand the signals involved in bacteria-bacteria and bacteria-host communication to get the clues for the development of probiotics with therapeutic potential.


35830286|t|Gut microbiota: a new insight into neurological diseases.
35830286|w|Lanxiang Liu; Haiyang Wang; Xueyi Chen; Peng Xie
35830286|j|Chinese medical journal
35830286|y|2023
35830286|a|In the last decade, it has become increasingly recognized that a balanced gut microbiota plays an important role in maintaining the health of the host. Numerous clinical and preclinical studies have shown that changes in gut microbiota composition are associated with a variety of neurological diseases, e.g., Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and myasthenia gravis. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are complex and remain unclear. Behavioral phenotypes can be transmitted from humans to animals through gut microbiota transplantation, indicating that the gut microbiota may be an important regulator of neurological diseases. However, further research is required to determine whether animal-based findings can be extended to humans and to elucidate the relevant potential mechanisms by which the gut microbiota regulates neurological diseases. Such investigations may aid in the development of new microbiota-based strategies for diagnosis and treatment and improve the clinical management of neurological disorders. In this review, we describe the dysbiosis of gut microbiota and the corresponding mechanisms in common neurological diseases, and discuss the potential roles that the intestinal microbiome may play in the diagnosis and treatment of neurological disorders.


36839287|t|Neuroprotective Effects of Sodium Butyrate by Restoring Gut Microbiota and Inhibiting TLR4 Signaling in Mice with MPTP-Induced Parkinson's Disease.
36839287|w|Tong-Tong Guo; Zheng Zhang; Yan Sun; Rui-Yang Zhu; Fei-Xia Wang; Lian-Ju Ma; Lin Jiang; Han-Deng Liu
36839287|j|Nutrients
36839287|y|2023
36839287|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent type of neurodegenerative disease. There is mounting evidence that the gut microbiota is involved in the pathogenesis of PD. Sodium butyrate (NaB) can regulate gut microbiota and improve brain functioning in neurological disorders. Hence, we examined whether the neuroprotective function of NaB on PD was mediated by the modulation of gut microbial dysbiosis and revealed its possible mechanisms. Mice were administered 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) for 7 consecutive days to construct the PD model. NaB gavage was given 2 h after the daily MPTP injections for 21 days. NaB improved the motor functioning of PD mice, increased striatal neurotransmitter levels, and reduced the death of dopaminergic neurons. The 16S rRNA sequencing analysis revealed that NaB restored the gut microbial dysbiosis. NaB also attenuated the intestinal barrier's disruption and reduced serum, colon, and striatal pro-inflammatory cytokines, along with inhibiting the overactivation of glial cells, suggesting an inhibitory effect on inflammation from NaB throughout the gut-brain axis of the PD mice. Mechanistic studies revealed that NaB treatment suppressed the TLR4/MyD88/NF-kB pathway in the colon and striatum. In summary, NaB had a neuroprotective impact on the PD mice, likely linked to its regulation of gut microbiota to inhibit gut-brain axis inflammation.


37418977|t|Low and high doses of oral maslinic acid protect against Parkinson's disease via distinct gut microbiota-related mechanisms.
37418977|w|Xu Cao; Zhong-Rui Du; Xin Liu; Xiong Wang; Chong Li; Sai-Nan Zhou; Jia-Rui Liu; Ping-Yi Xu; Jun-Li Ye; Qing Zhao; Fang Zhao; Ka-Hing Wong; Xiao-Li Dong
37418977|j|Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie
37418977|y|2023
37418977|a|The use of oral agents that can modify the gut microbiota (GM) could be a novel preventative or therapeutic option for Parkinson's disease (PD). Maslinic acid (MA), a pentacyclic triterpene acid with GM-dependent biological activities when it is taken orally, has not yet been reported to be effective against PD. The present study found both low and high dose MA treatment significantly prevented dopaminergic neuronal loss in a classical chronic PD mouse model by ameliorating motor functions and improving tyrosine hydroxylase expressions in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and increasing dopamine and its metabolite homovanillic acid levels in the striatum. However, the effects of MA in PD mice were not dose-responsive, since similar beneficial effects for low and high doses of MA were observed. Further mechanism studies indicated that low dose MA administration favored probiotic bacterial growth in PD mice, which helped to increase striatal serotonin, 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid, and γ-aminobutyric acid levels. High dose MA treatment did not influence GM composition in PD mice but significantly inhibited neuroinflammation as indicated by reduced levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha and interleukin 1β in the SNpc; moreover, these effects were mainly mediated by microbially-derived acetic acid in the colon. In conclusion, oral MA at different doses protected against PD via distinct mechanisms related to GM. Nevertheless, our study lacked in-depth investigations of the underlying mechanisms involved; future studies will be designed to further delineate the signaling pathways involved in the interactive actions between different doses of MA and GM.


36901907|t|What the Gut Tells the Brain-Is There a Link between Microbiota and Huntington's Disease?
36901907|w|Dorota Wronka; Anna Karlik; Julia O Misiorek; Lukasz Przybyl
36901907|j|International journal of molecular sciences
36901907|y|2023
36901907|a|The human intestinal microbiota is a diverse and dynamic microenvironment that forms a complex, bi-directional relationship with the host. The microbiome takes part in the digestion of food and the generation of crucial nutrients such as short chain fatty acids (SCFA), but is also impacts the host's metabolism, immune system, and even brain functions. Due to its indispensable role, microbiota has been implicated in both the maintenance of health and the pathogenesis of many diseases. Dysbiosis in the gut microbiota has already been implicated in many neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, not much is known about the microbiome composition and its interactions in Huntington's disease (HD). This dominantly heritable, incurable neurodegenerative disease is caused by the expansion of CAG trinucleotide repeats in the huntingtin gene (<i>HTT</i>). As a result, toxic RNA and mutant protein (mHTT), rich in polyglutamine (polyQ), accumulate particularly in the brain, leading to its impaired functions. Interestingly, recent studies indicated that mHTT is also widely expressed in the intestines and could possibly interact with the microbiota, affecting the progression of HD. Several studies have aimed so far to screen the microbiota composition in mouse models of HD and find out whether observed microbiome dysbiosis could affect the functions of the HD brain. This review summarizes ongoing research in the HD field and highlights the essential role of the intestine-brain axis in HD pathogenesis and progression. The review also puts a strong emphasis on indicating microbiome composition as a future target in the urgently needed therapy for this still incurable disease.


37470081|t|Effect of <i>Lacticaseibacillus paracasei</i> strain Shirota supplementation on clinical responses and gut microbiome in Parkinson's disease.
37470081|w|Xiaodong Yang; Xiaoqin He; Shaoqing Xu; Yi Zhang; Chengjun Mo; Yiqiu Lai; Yanyan Song; Zheng Yan; Penghui Ai; Yiwei Qian; Qin Xiao
37470081|j|Food & function
37470081|y|2023
37470081|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease characterized by motor issues and a range of non-motor symptoms. Microbial therapy may be a useful approach for the treatment of PD. However, comprehensive analyses of the impact of probiotic supplementation on motor and non-motor symptoms are still lacking and the mechanisms whereby the treatment works remain unclear. This study investigated <i>Lacticaseibacillus paracasei</i> strain Shirota (LcS) supplementation on clinical responses, gut microbiota and faecal metabolites in PD patients. Patients (<i>n</i> = 128) were randomised to receive either probiotics (LcS-fermented milk, containing 1 × 10<sup>10</sup> living LcS cells) or placebo for 12 weeks. All participants were examined and the basic clinical features were recorded using questionnaires. Fecal and blood samples were collected at the baseline and after 12 weeks for further omics analysis. We found that LcS intervention significantly alleviated patients' constipation-related symptoms and non-motor symptoms. We found no significant shifts in the composition of gut microbiota or faecal metabolites. Several taxa were differentially abundant between the groups, especially with regard to LcS intake, which increased the abundance of the genus <i>Lacticaseibacillus</i> in the probiotic group compared with those at the baseline and in the placebo group. The faecal concentration of L-tyrosine was significantly decreased and the plasma concentration of L-tyrosine was increased in the probiotic group compared with the placebo group. Our study demonstrated that although supplementation with LcS did not induce major changes in the global gut microbiome, the probiotic had favorable effects in managing constipation and other non-motor symptoms in PD patients. This study was registered at the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry: ChiCTR1800016795.


38098666|t|Exploring the role of gut microbiota in advancing personalized medicine.
38098666|w|Gouxin Huang; Raees Khan; Yilin Zheng; Ping-Chin Lee; Qingnan Li; Imran Khan
38098666|j|Frontiers in microbiology
38098666|y|2023
38098666|a|Ongoing extensive research in the field of gut microbiota (GM) has highlighted the crucial role of gut-dwelling microbes in human health. These microbes possess 100 times more genes than the human genome and offer significant biochemical advantages to the host in nutrient and drug absorption, metabolism, and excretion. It is increasingly clear that GM modulates the efficacy and toxicity of drugs, especially those taken orally. In addition, intra-individual variability of GM has been shown to contribute to drug response biases for certain therapeutics. For instance, the efficacy of cyclophosphamide depends on the presence of <i>Enterococcus hirae</i> and <i>Barnesiella intestinihominis</i> in the host intestine. Conversely, the presence of inappropriate or unwanted gut bacteria can inactivate a drug. For example, dehydroxylase of <i>Enterococcus faecalis</i> and <i>Eggerthella lenta</i> A2 can metabolize L-dopa before it converts into the active form (dopamine) and crosses the blood-brain barrier to treat Parkinson's disease patients. Moreover, GM is emerging as a new player in personalized medicine, and various methods are being developed to treat diseases by remodeling patients' GM composition, such as prebiotic and probiotic interventions, microbiota transplants, and the introduction of synthetic GM. This review aims to highlight how the host's GM can improve drug efficacy and discuss how an unwanted bug can cause the inactivation of medicine.


37787835|t|The gut microbiome: an important role in neurodegenerative diseases and their therapeutic advances.
37787835|w|Songlin Li; Linna Zhao; Jie Xiao; Yuying Guo; Rong Fu; Yunsha Zhang; Shixin Xu
37787835|j|Molecular and cellular biochemistry
37787835|y|2024
37787835|a|There are complex interactions between the gut and the brain. With increasing research on the relationship between gut microbiota and brain function, accumulated clinical and preclinical evidence suggests that gut microbiota is intimately involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases (NDs). Increasingly studies are beginning to focus on the association between gut microbiota and central nervous system (CNS) degenerative pathologies to find potential therapies for these refractory diseases. In this review, we summarize the changes in the gut microbiota in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and contribute to our understanding of the function of the gut microbiota in NDs and its possible involvement in the pathogenesis. We subsequently discuss therapeutic approaches targeting gut microbial abnormalities in these diseases, including antibiotics, diet, probiotics, and fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT). Furthermore, we summarize some completed and ongoing clinical trials of interventions with gut microbes for NDs, which may provide new ideas for studying NDs.


37147392|t|Gastrointestinal disorders in Parkinson's disease and other Lewy body diseases.
37147392|w|Masaaki Hirayama; Hiroshi Nishiwaki; Tomonari Hamaguchi; Kinji Ohno
37147392|j|NPJ Parkinson's disease
37147392|y|2023
37147392|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is pathologically characterized by the abnormal accumulation of α-synuclein fibrils (Lewy bodies) in the substantia nigra and other brain regions, although the role of Lewy bodies remains elusive. Constipation usually precedes the motor symptoms in PD, which is in accordance with the notion that α-synuclein fibrils start from the intestinal neural plexus and ascend to the brain in at least half of PD patients. The gut microbiota is likely to be involved in intestinal and brain pathologies. Analyses of the gut microbiota in PD, rapid-eye-movement sleep behavior disorder, and dementia with Lewy bodies suggest three pathological pathways. First, Akkermansia, which is increased in PD, degrades the intestinal mucus layer and increases intestinal permeability, which triggers inflammation and oxidative stress in the intestinal neural plexus. Second, decreased short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs)-producing bacteria in PD reduce the number of regulatory T cells. Third, SCFAs also aggravate microglial activation with an unelucidated pathway. In addition, in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), which is another form of α-synucleinopathies, increased genera, Ruminococcus torques and Collinsella, may mitigate neuroinflammation in the substantia nigra by increasing secondary bile acids. Interventions for the gut microbiota and their metabolites may potentially delay or mitigate the development and progression of PD and other Lewy body diseases.


36719617|t|Altered gut microbiota in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease: an age-sex matched case-control study.
36719617|w|Gulsen Babacan Yildiz; Zeynep Cigdem Kayacan; Ilker Karacan; Bilge Sumbul; Birsen Elibol; Ozlem Gelisin; Ozer Akgul
36719617|j|Acta neurologica Belgica
36719617|y|2023
36719617|a|The investigations related to how gut microbiota changes the brain-gut axis in idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) attract growing interest. We aimed to determine whether gut microbiota is altered in PD patients and whether non-motor symptoms of PD and disease duration had any relation with alterations of microbiota profiles among patients. Microbial taxa in stool samples obtained from 84 subjects (42-PD patients and 42-healthy spouses) were analyzed using 16S rRNA amplicon-sequencing. We observed a significant decrease of Firmicutes and a significant increase of Verrucomicrobiota at the phylum level. At the family level, Lactobacillaceae and Akkermansiaceae were significantly increased and Coriobacteriales Incertae Sedis were significantly decreased in the PD patients compared to their healthy spouses. Genus level comparison inferred significant increase in abundance only in Lactobacillus while the abundance of Lachnospiraceae ND3007 group, Tyzzerella, Fusicatenibacter, Eubacterium hallii group and Ruminococcus gauvreauii group were all decreased. We determined that the abundance of Prevotella genus decreased, but not significantly in PD patients. In addition, we found differences in microbiota composition between patients with and without non-motor symptoms. We observed differences in gut microbiota composition between PD patients and their healthy spouses. Our findings suggest that disease duration influenced microbiota composition, which in turn influenced development of non-motor symptoms in PD. This study is the first in terms of both gut microbiota research in Turkish PD patients and the probable effect of microbiota on non-motor symptoms of PD.


37047769|t|Neuroprotective Effects of <i>Lactobacillus plantarum</i> PS128 in a Mouse Model of Parkinson's Disease: The Role of Gut Microbiota and MicroRNAs.
37047769|w|Yan Zhang Lee; Shih-Hsuan Cheng; Min-Yu Chang; Yu-Fen Lin; Chien-Chen Wu; Ying-Chieh Tsai
37047769|j|International journal of molecular sciences
37047769|y|2023
37047769|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by motor deficits and marked neuroinflammation in various brain regions. The pathophysiology of PD is complex and mounting evidence has suggested an association with the dysregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) and gut dysbiosis. Using a rotenone-induced PD mouse model, we observed that administration of <i>Lactobacillus plantarum</i> PS128 (PS128) significantly improved motor deficits in PD-like mice, accompanied by an increased level of dopamine, reduced dopaminergic neuron loss, reduced microglial activation, reduced levels of inflammatory factors, and enhanced expression of neurotrophic factor in the brain. Notably, the inflammation-related expression of miR-155-5p was significantly upregulated in the proximal colon, midbrain, and striatum of PD-like mice. PS128 reduced the level of miR-155-5p, whereas it increased the expression of suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (SOCS1), a direct target of miR-155-5p and a critical inhibitor of the inflammatory response in the brain. Alteration of the fecal microbiota in PD-like mice was partially restored by PS128 administration. Among them, <i>Bifidobacterium</i>, <i>Ruminiclostridium</i>_6, <i>Bacteroides</i>, and <i>Alistipes</i> were statistically correlated with the improvement of rotenone-induced motor deficits and the expression of miR-155-5p and SOCS1. Our findings suggested that PS128 ameliorates motor deficits and exerts neuroprotective effects by regulating the gut microbiota and miR-155-5p/SOCS1 pathway in rotenone-induced PD-like mice.


37897083|t|Gut microbiota-derived short chain fatty acids act as mediators of the gut-brain axis targeting age-related neurodegenerative disorders: a narrative review.
37897083|w|Bingbing Guo; Jingyi Zhang; Weihao Zhang; Feng Chen; Bin Liu
37897083|j|Critical reviews in food science and nutrition
37897083|y|2023
37897083|a|Neurodegenerative diseases associated with aging are often accompanied by cognitive decline and gut microbiota disorder. But the impact of gut microbiota on these cognitive disturbances remains incompletely understood. Short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) are major metabolites produced by gut microbiota during the digestion of dietary fiber, serving as an energy source for gut epithelial cells and/or circulating to other organs, such as the liver and brain, through the bloodstream. SCFAs have been shown to cross the blood-brain barrier and played crucial roles in brain metabolism, with potential implications in mediating Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the underlying mechanisms that SCFAs might influence psychological functioning, including affective and cognitive processes and their neural basis, have not been fully elucidated. Furthermore, the dietary sources which determine these SCFAs production was not thoroughly evaluated yet. This comprehensive review explores the production of SCFAs by gut microbiota, their transportation through the gut-brain axis, and the potential mechanisms by which they influence age-related neurodegenerative disorders. Also, the review discusses the importance of dietary fiber sources and the challenges associated with harnessing dietary-derived SCFAs as promoters of neurological health in elderly individuals. Overall, this study suggests that gut microbiota-derived SCFAs and/or dietary fibers hold promise as potential targets and strategies for addressing age-related neurodegenerative disorders.


37719758|t|Acupuncture for Parkinson's disease-related constipation: current evidence and perspectives.
37719758|w|Jiale Zhang; Xiaolei Ge; Kaiqi Zhang; Yun Qi; Shuo Ren; Xu Zhai
37719758|j|Frontiers in neurology
37719758|y|2023
37719758|a|Parkinson's disease-related constipation (PDC) is commonly associated with impaired dopamine transmission and gastrointestinal dysfunction. Current pharmacological treatments have limited efficacy and potential side effects. Acupuncture has shown promise as an alternative or adjunct therapy by modulating the brain-gut axis, gastrointestinal hormones, and autonomic function. Preliminary randomized trials have shown that acupuncture significantly improves constipation symptoms, bowel movements, and comfort compared to sham or drug treatments and is well-tolerated. The mechanisms of action may involve regulating the gut microbiota and mucosal immunity to improve dysbiosis and gastrointestinal motility. However, more rigorous studies are required to optimize acupuncture protocols and determine long-term efficacy and safety. In summary, acupuncture shows promise as an adjunct therapy for PDC, but further research is needed to confirm its efficacy and safety.


37150399|t|Differences in the gut microbiome across typical ageing and in Parkinson's disease.
37150399|w|Nathan D Nuzum; Ewa A Szymlek-Gay; Stella Loke; Samantha L Dawson; Wei-Peng Teo; Ashlee M Hendy; Amy Loughman; Helen Macpherson
37150399|j|Neuropharmacology
37150399|y|2023
37150399|a|The microbiota-gut-brain axis' role in Parkinson's disease (PD) pathophysiology, and how this differs from typical ageing, is poorly understood. Presently, gut-bacterial diversity, taxonomic abundance and metabolic bacterial pathways were compared across healthy young (n = 22, 18-35 years), healthy older (n = 33, 50-80 years), and PD groups (n = 18, 50-80 years) using shotgun sequencing and compositional data analysis. Associations between the gut-microbiome and PD symptoms, and between lifestyle factors (fibre intake, physical activity, and sleep) and the gut-microbiome were conducted. Alpha-diversity did not differ between PD participants and older adults, whilst beta-diversity differed between these groups. Lower abundance of Butyricimonas synergistica, a butyrate-producer, was associated with worse PD non-motor symptoms in the PD group. Regarding typical ageing, Bifidobacterium bifidum, was greater in the younger compared to older group, with no difference between the older and PD group. Abundance of metabolic pathways related to butyrate production did not differ among the groups, while other metabolic pathways differed among the three groups. Sleep efficiency was positively associated with Roseburia inulinivorans in the older group. These results highlight the relevance of gut-microbiota to PD and that reduced butyrate-production may be involved with PD pathophysiology. Future studies should account for lifestyle factors when investigating gut-microbiomes across ageing and in PD. This article is part of the Special Issue on "Microbiome & the Brain: Mechanisms & Maladies".


37508017|t|Urolithin A in Health and Diseases: Prospects for Parkinson's Disease Management.
37508017|w|Olga Wojciechowska; Małgorzata Kujawska
37508017|j|Antioxidants (Basel, Switzerland)
37508017|y|2023
37508017|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic and progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a complex pathophysiology and a range of symptoms. The prevalence increases with age, putting the ageing population at risk. Disease management includes the improvement of symptoms, the comfort of the patient's life, and palliative care. As there is currently no cure, growing evidence points towards the beneficial role of polyphenols on neurodegeneration. Numerous studies indicate the health benefits of the family of urolithins, especially urolithin A (UA). UA is a bacterial metabolite produced by dietary ellagitannins and ellagic acid. An expanding body of literature explores the involvement of the compound in mitochondrial health, and its anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, and anti-apoptotic properties. The review organizes the existing knowledge on the role of UA in health and diseases, emphasizing neurodegenerative diseases, especially PD. We gathered data on the potential neuroprotective effect in in vivo and in vitro models. We discussed the possible mechanisms of action of the compound and related health benefits to give a broader perspective of potential applications of UA in neuroprotective strategies. Moreover, we projected the future directions of applying UA in PD management.


38115597|t|Gut microbiota modification by diosgenin mediates antiepileptic effects in a mouse model of epilepsy.
38115597|w|Xinyu Li; Jing Li; Jia Ji; Saisai Li; Xiaoyu Yao; Hongbin Fan; Ruiqin Yao
38115597|j|Journal of neurochemistry
38115597|y|2023
38115597|a|Diosgenin, a natural steroid saponin, holds promise as a multitarget therapeutic for various diseases, including neurodegenerative conditions. Its efficacy in slowing Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, and stroke progression has been demonstrated. However, the role of diosgenin in anti-epilepsy and its potential connection to the modulation of the intestinal microbiota remain poorly understood. In this study, exogenous diosgenin significantly mitigated pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-induced seizures, learning and memory deficits, and hippocampal neuronal injury. 16S ribosomal RNA (16S rRNA) sequencing revealed a reversal in the decrease of Bacteroides and Parabacteroides genera in the PTZ-induced mouse epileptic model following diosgenin treatment. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) experiments illustrated the involvement of diosgenin in modulating gut microbiota and providing neuroprotection against epilepsy. Our results further indicated the repression of enteric glial cells (EGCs) activation and the TLR4-MyD88 pathway, coupled with reduced production of inflammatory cytokines in the colonic lumen, and improved intestinal barrier function in epilepsy mice treated with diosgenin or FMT. This study suggests that diosgenin plays a role in modifying gut microbiota, contributing to the alleviation of intestinal inflammation and neuroinflammation, ultimately inhibiting epilepsy progression in a PTZ-induced mouse model. Diosgenin emerges as a potential therapeutic option for managing epilepsy and its associated comorbidities.


38287957|t|Causal relationship between gut microflora and dementia: a Mendelian randomization study.
38287957|w|Jinjie Fu; Yuan Qin; Lingyong Xiao; Xiaoyu Dai
38287957|j|Frontiers in microbiology
38287957|y|2023
38287957|a|Numerous pertinent investigations have demonstrated a correlation between gut microflora (GM) and the occurrence of dementia. However, a causal connection between GM and dementia and its subtypes has not yet been clarified. To explore the causal association between GM and dementia, including its subtypes, a two-sample Mendelian randomization (TSMR) analysis was used. Our data comes from the Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS). The principal approach employed for the Mendelian randomization study was the inverse-variance weighted method, supplemented by four methods: MR-Egger, weighted median, simple mode, and weighted mode. This was followed by Cochrane's Q test, MR-Egger intercept test, MR-PRESSO global test, and leave-one-out as sensitivity analysis validation. Twenty-one GMs associated with any dementia, Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, Lewy body dementia, Parkinson's disease, and dementia under other disease classifications were derived from the analysis, and 21 passed sensitivity tests. We confirmed the causal relationship between GM and dementia and its subtypes, derived specific flora associated with increased or decreased risk of dementia, and provided new ideas for preventive, diagnostic, and therapeutic interventions for dementia mediated by gut microbiota.


37191418|t|Gut Microbiota is an Impact Factor based on the Brain-Gut Axis to Alzheimer's Disease: A Systematic Review.
37191418|w|Bin Zou; Jia Li; Rui-Xia Ma; Xiao-Yu Cheng; Rui-Yin Ma; Ting-Yuan Zhou; Zi-Qi Wu; Yao Yao; Juan Li
37191418|j|Aging and disease
37191418|y|2023
37191418|a|Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a degenerative disease of the central nervous system. The pathogenesis of AD has been explained using cholinergic, β-amyloid toxicity, tau protein hyperphosphorylation, and oxidative stress theories. However, an effective treatment method has not been developed. In recent years, with the discovery of the brain-gut axis (BGA) and breakthroughs made in Parkinson's disease, depression, autism, and other diseases, BGA has become a hotspot in AD research. Several studies have shown that gut microbiota can affect the brain and behavior of patients with AD, especially their cognitive function. Animal models, fecal microbiota transplantation, and probiotic intervention also provide evidence regarding the correlation between gut microbiota and AD. This article discusses the relationship and related mechanisms between gut microbiota and AD based on BGA to provide possible strategies for preventing or alleviating AD symptoms by regulating gut microbiota.


37782386|t|5-HT4 Receptor is Protective for MPTP-induced Parkinson's Disease Mice Via Altering Gastrointestinal Motility or Gut Microbiota.
37782386|w|Chun Cui; Yun Shi; Hui Hong; Yu Zhou; Chenmeng Qiao; Liping Zhao; Xuebing Jia; Weijiang Zhao; Yanqin Shen
37782386|j|Journal of neuroimmune pharmacology : the official journal of the Society on NeuroImmune Pharmacology
37782386|y|2023
37782386|a|Serotonergic dysfunction is related to both motor and nonmotor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD). As a 5-HT receptor, 5-HT4 receptor (5-HT4R) is well-studied and already-used in clinical therapy of constipation, which is a typical non-motor symptom in PD. In this study, we investigated the role of 5-HT4R as a regulator of gut function in MPTP-induced acute PD mice model. Daily intraperitoneal injection of GR 125487 (5-HT4R antagonist) was administered 3 days before MPTP treatment until sacrifice. Seven days post-MPTP treatment, feces were collected and gastrointestinal transit time (GITT) was measured, 8 days post-MPTP treatment, behavioral tests were performed, and then animals were sacrificed for the further analysis. We found GR 125487 pretreatment not only increased GITT, but also aggravated MPTP-induced motor bradykinesia. In addition, GR 125487 pretreatment exacerbated the loss of dopaminergic neurons probably by suppressing JAK2/PKA/CREB signaling pathway and increased reactive glia and neuroinflammation in the striatum. 16 S rRNA sequencing of fecal microbiota showed that GR 125487 pretreatment altered the composition of gut microbiota, in which the abundance of Akkermansia muciniphila and Clostridium clostridioforme was increased, whereas that of Parabacteroides distasonis and Bacteroides fragilis was decreased, which are closely associated with inflammation condition. Taken together, we demonstrated that GR 125487 pretreatment exacerbates MPTP-induced striatal neurodegenerative processes possibly via the JAK2/PKA/CREB pathway and neuroinflammation by altering gut microbiota composition. In the microbiota-gut-brain axis of PD, 5-HT4R should be further explored and might serve as a target for PD diagnosis and treatment.


36993742|t|Gut microbiota and fecal short chain fatty acids differ with adiposity and country of origin: The METS-Microbiome Study.
36993742|w|Gertrude Ecklu-Mensah; Candice Choo-Kang; Maria Gjerstad Maseng; Sonya Donato; Pascal Bovet; Kweku Bedu-Addo; Jacob Plange-Rhule; Terrence E Forrester; Estelle V Lambert; Dale Rae; Amy Luke; Brian T Layden; Stephen O'Keefe; Jack A Gilbert; Lara R Dugas
36993742|j|bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology
36993742|y|2023
36993742|a|The relationship between the gut microbiota, short chain fatty acid (SCFA) metabolism, and obesity remains unclear due to conflicting reports from studies with limited statistical power. Additionally, this association has rarely been explored in large scale diverse populations. Here, we investigated associations between fecal microbial composition, predicted metabolic potential, SCFA concentrations, and obesity in a large ( <i>N</i> = 1,934) adult cohort of African-origin spanning the epidemiologic transition, from Ghana, South Africa, Jamaica, Seychelles, and the United States (US). The greatest gut microbiota diversity and total fecal SCFA concentration was found in the Ghanaian population, while the lowest levels were found in the US population, respectively representing the lowest and the highest end of the epidemiologic transition spectrum. Country-specific bacterial taxa and predicted-functional pathways were observed, including an increased prevalence of <i>Prevotella</i> , <i>Butyrivibrio</i> , <i>Weisella</i> and <i>Romboutsia</i> in Ghana and South Africa, while <i>Bacteroides</i> and <i>Parabacteroides</i> were enriched in Jamaican and the US populations. Importantly, 'VANISH' taxa, including <i>Butyricicoccus and Succinivibrio</i> , were significantly enriched in the Ghanaian cohort, reflecting the participants' traditional lifestyles. Obesity was significantly associated with lower SCFA concentrations, a decrease in microbial richness, and dissimilarities in community composition, and reduction in the proportion of SCFA synthesizing bacteria including <i>Oscillospira</i> , <i>Christensenella</i> , <i>Eubacterium</i> , <i>Alistipes</i> , <i>Clostridium</i> and <i>Odoribacter</i> . Further, the predicted proportions of genes in the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) synthesis pathway were enriched in obese individuals, while genes associated with butyrate synthesis via the dominant pyruvate pathway were significantly reduced in obese individuals. Using machine learning, we identified features predictive of metabolic state and country of origin. Country of origin could accurately be predicted by the fecal microbiota (AUC = 0.97), whereas obesity could not be predicted as accurately (AUC = 0.65). Participant sex (AUC = 0.75), diabetes status (AUC = 0.63), hypertensive status (AUC = 0.65), and glucose status (AUC = 0.66) could all be predicted with different success. Interestingly, within country, the predictive accuracy of the microbiota for obesity was inversely correlated to the epidemiological transition, being greatest in Ghana (AUC = 0.57). Collectively, our findings reveal profound variation in the gut microbiota, inferred functional pathways, and SCFA synthesis as a function of country of origin. While obesity could be predicted accurately from the microbiota, the variation in accuracy in parallel with the epidemiological transition suggests that differences in the microbiota between obesity and non-obesity may be larger in low-to-middle countries compared to high-income countries. Further examination of independent study populations using multi-omic approaches will be necessary to determine the factors that drive this association.


38141735|t|Does gut brain axis has an impact on Parkinson's disease (PD)?
38141735|w|Ajay Elangovan; Bhawna Dahiya; Laxmi Kirola; Mahalaxmi Iyer; Priyanka Jeeth; Sakshi Maharaj; Nikki Kumari; Vikas Lakhanpal; Tanja Maria Michel; K R S Sambasiva Rao; Ssang-Goo Cho; Mukesh Kumar Yadav; Abilash Valsala Gopalakrishnan; Saraboji Kadhirvel; Nachimuthu Senthil Kumar; Balachandar Vellingiri
38141735|j|Ageing research reviews
38141735|y|2024
38141735|a|Parkinson's Disease (PD) is becoming a growing global concern by being the second most prevalent disease next to Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Henceforth new exploration is needed in search of new aspects towards the disease mechanism and origin. Evidence from recent studies has clearly stated the role of Gut Microbiota (GM) in the maintenance of the brain and as a root cause of various diseases and disorders including other neurological conditions. In the case of PD, with an unknown etiology, the GM is said to have a larger impact on the disease pathophysiology. Although GM and its metabolites are crucial for maintaining the normal physiology of the host, it is an undeniable fact that there is an influence of GM in the pathophysiology of PD. As such the Enteroendocrine Cells (EECs) in the epithelium of the intestine are one of the significant regulators of the gut-brain axis and act as a communication mediator between the gut and the brain. The communication is established via the molecules of neuroendocrine which are said to have a crucial part in neurological diseases such as AD, PD, and other psychiatry-related disorders. This review is focused on understanding the proper role of GM and EECs in PD. Here, we also focus on some of the metabolites and compounds that can interact with the PD genes causing various dysfunctions in the cell and facilitating the disease conditions using bioinformatical tools. Various mechanisms concerning EECs and PD, their identification, the latest studies, and available current therapies have also been discussed.


37978405|t|Oral pathogens exacerbate Parkinson's disease by promoting Th1 cell infiltration in mice.
37978405|w|Xue-Bing Bai; Shuo Xu; Lu-Jun Zhou; Xiao-Qian Meng; Yu-Lin Li; Yan-Lin Chen; Yi-Han Jiang; Wen-Zhen Lin; Bo-Yan Chen; Lin-Juan Du; Guo-Cai Tian; Yan Liu; Sheng-Zhong Duan; Ya-Qin Zhu
37978405|j|Microbiome
37978405|y|2023
37978405|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common chronic neurological disorder with a high risk of disability and no cure. Periodontitis is an infectious bacterial disease occurring in periodontal supporting tissues. Studies have shown that periodontitis is closely related to PD. However, direct evidence of the effect of periodontitis on PD is lacking. Here, we demonstrated that ligature-induced periodontitis with application of subgingival plaque (LIP-SP) exacerbated motor dysfunction, microglial activation, and dopaminergic neuron loss in 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD mice. The 16S rRNA gene sequencing revealed that LIP-SP induced oral and gut dysbiosis. Particularly, Veillonella parvula (V. parvula) and Streptococcus mutans (S. mutans) from oral ligatures were increased in the fecal samples of MPTP + LIP-SP treated mice. We further demonstrated that V. parvula and S. mutans played crucial roles in LIP-SP mediated exacerbation of motor dysfunction and neurodegeneration in PD mice. V. parvula and S. mutans caused microglial activation in the brain, as well as T helper 1 (Th1) cells infiltration in the brain, cervical lymph nodes, ileum and colon in PD mice. Moreover, we observed a protective effect of IFNγ neutralization on dopaminergic neurons in V. parvula- and S. mutans-treated PD mice. Our study demonstrates that oral pathogens V. parvula and S. mutans necessitate the existence of periodontitis to exacerbate motor dysfunction and neurodegeneration in MPTP-induced PD mice. The underlying mechanisms include alterations of oral and gut microbiota, along with immune activation in both brain and peripheral regions. Video Abstract.


37850544|t|Influence of gut microbiota on the development of most prevalent neurodegenerative dementias and the potential effect of probiotics in elderly: A scoping review.
37850544|w|David Mateo; Montse Marquès; José L Domingo; Margarita Torrente
37850544|j|American journal of medical genetics. Part B, Neuropsychiatric genetics : the official publication of the International Society of Psychiatric Genetics
37850544|y|2024
37850544|a|Dementia is one of today's greatest public health challenges. Its high socio-economic impact and difficulties in diagnosis and treatment are of increasing concern to an aging world population. In recent years, the study of the relationship between gut microbiota and different neurocognitive disorders has gained a considerable interest. Several studies have reported associations between gut microbiota dysbiosis and some types of dementia. Probiotics have been suggested to restore dysbiosis and to improve neurocognitive symptomatology in these dementias. Based on these previous findings, the available scientific evidence on the gut microbiota in humans affected by the most prevalent dementias, as well as the probiotic trials conducted in these patients in recent years, have been here reviewed. Decreased concentrations of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) and other bacterial metabolites appear to play a major role in the onset of neurocognitive symptoms in Alzheimer disease (AD) and Parkinson disease dementia (PDD). Increased abundance of proinflammatory taxa could be closely related to the more severe clinical symptoms in both, as well as in Lewy Bodies dementia. Important lack of information was noted in Frontotemporal dementia behavioral variant. Moreover, geographical differences in the composition of the gut microbiota have been reported in AD. Some potential beneficial effects of probiotics in AD and PDD have been reported. However, due to the controversial results further investigations are clearly necessary.


37375632|t|The Impact of a Very-Low-Calorie Ketogenic Diet in the Gut Microbiota Composition in Obesity.
37375632|w|Ana Karina Zambrano; Santiago Cadena-Ullauri; Patricia Guevara-Ramírez; Evelyn Frias-Toral; Viviana A Ruiz-Pozo; Elius Paz-Cruz; Rafael Tamayo-Trujillo; Sebastián Chapela; Martha Montalván; Gerardo Sarno; Claudia V Guerra; Daniel Simancas-Racines
37375632|j|Nutrients
37375632|y|2023
37375632|a|The very-low-calorie KD (VLCKD) is characterized by a caloric intake of under 800 kcal/day divided into less than 50 g/day of carbohydrate (13%) and 1 to 1.5 g of protein/kg of body weight (44%) and 43% of fat. This low carbohydrate intake changes the energy source from glucose to ketone bodies. Moreover, clinical trials have consistently shown a beneficial effect of VLCKD in several diseases, such as heart failure, schizophrenia, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's, and obesity, among others. The gut microbiota has been associated with the metabolic conditions of a person and is regulated by diet interactions; furthermore, it has been shown that the microbiota has a role in body weight homeostasis by regulating metabolism, appetite, and energy. Currently, there is increasing evidence of an association between gut microbiota dysbiosis and the pathophysiology of obesity. In addition, the molecular pathways, the role of metabolites, and how microbiota modulation could be beneficial remain unclear, and more research is needed. The objective of the present article is to contribute with an overview of the impact that VLCKD has on the intestinal microbiota composition of individuals with obesity through a literature review describing the latest research regarding the topic and highlighting which bacteria phyla are associated with obesity and VLCKD.


37674043|t|Gut microbiota-induced CXCL1 elevation triggers early neuroinflammation in the substantia nigra of Parkinsonian mice.
37674043|w|Xi-Zhen Ma; Lei-Lei Chen; Le Qu; Hui Li; Jun Wang; Ning Song; Jun-Xia Xie
37674043|j|Acta pharmacologica Sinica
37674043|y|2024
37674043|a|Gut microbiota disturbance and systemic inflammation have been implicated in the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD). How the alteration of gut microbiota results in neuropathological events in PD remains elusive. In this study, we explored whether and how environmental insults caused early neuropathological events in the substantia nigra (SN) of a PD mouse model. Aged (12-month-old) mice were orally administered rotenone (6.25 mg·kg<sup>-1</sup>·d<sup>-1</sup>) 5 days per week for 2 months. We demonstrated that oral administration of rotenone to ageing mice was sufficient to establish a PD mouse model and that microglial activation and iron deposition selectively appeared in the SN of the mice prior to loss of motor coordination and dopaminergic neurons, and these events could be fully blocked by microglial elimination with a PLX5622-formulated diet. 16 S rDNA sequencing analysis showed that the gut microbiota in rotenone-treated mice was altered, and mice receiving faecal microbial transplantation (FMT) from ageing mice treated with rotenone for 2 months exhibited the same pathology in the SN. We demonstrated that C-X-C motif chemokine ligand-1 (CXCL1) was an essential molecule, as intravenous injection of CXCL1 mimicked almost all the pathology in serum and SN induced by oral rotenone and FMT. Using metabolomics and transcriptomics analyses, we identified the PPAR pathway as a key pathway involved in rotenone-induced neuronal damage. Inhibition of the PPARγ pathway was consistent in the above models, whereas its activation by linoleic acid (60 mg·kg<sup>-1</sup>·d<sup>-1</sup>, i.g. for 1 week) could block these pathological events in mice intravenously injected with CXCL1. Altogether, these results reveal that the altered gut microbiota resulted in neuroinflammation and iron deposition occurring early in the SN of ageing mice with oral administration of rotenone, much earlier than motor symptoms and dopaminergic neuron loss. We found that CXCL1 plays a crucial role in this process, possibly via PPARγ signalling inhibition. This study may pave the way for understanding the "brain-gut-microbiota" molecular regulatory networks in PD pathogenesis. The aged C57BL/6 male mice with rotenone intragastric administration showed altered gut microbiota, which caused systemic inflammation, PPARγ signalling inhibition and neuroinflammation, brain iron deposition and ferroptosis, and eventually dopaminergic neurodegeneration in PD.


37404573|t|Parkinson's Disease Related Depression and Anxiety: A 22-Year Bibliometric Analysis (2000-2022).
37404573|w|Tong Zhang; Rui Yang; Juhua Pan; Shijing Huang
37404573|j|Neuropsychiatric disease and treatment
37404573|y|2023
37404573|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the common neurodegenerative diseases. Depression and anxiety are the most common psychiatric symptoms of PD. It is important to study the potential relationship between PD and depression or anxiety. This study aimed to use bibliometrics to analyze the papers about parkinson's disease related depression and anxiety over the last 22 years, and to characterize the current status of research and predict future hotspots. In the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC) from 2000 to 2022, documents are searched according to specific subject words. The selected literature was retrospectively analyzed and mapped using CiteSpace and Vosviewer software. We analyzed countries, institutions, journals, authors, references and keywords. A total of 7368 papers were included from 2000 to 2022, and the number of publications has shown an upward trend year by year. Movement Disorder is the journal with the highest number of publications (391 publications, 5.31%) and citations (30,549 times), with the United States (2055 publications, 27.9%) and the University of Toronto (158 publications) being the countries and institutions with the highest number of publications. The high-frequency keywords focused on "quality of life", "deep brain stimulation" and "non-motor symptoms". "Functional connectivity", "gut microbiota" and "inflammation" may be at the forefront of future research. Parkinson's disease related depression and anxiety have been increasingly studied over the past 22 years. Functional connectivity, gut microbiota, and inflammation will be the subject of active research hotspots in the future, and these findings may provide new research ideas for researchers.


37034781|t|Machine learning based gut microbiota pattern and response to fiber as a diagnostic tool for chronic inflammatory diseases.
37034781|w|Miad Boodaghidizaji; Thaisa Jungles; Tingting Chen; Bin Zhang; Alan Landay; Ali Keshavarzian; Bruce Hamaker; Arezoo Ardekani
37034781|j|bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology
37034781|y|2023
37034781|a|Gut microbiota has been implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple gastrointestinal (GI) and systemic metabolic and inflammatory disorders where disrupted gut microbiota composition and function (dysbiosis) has been found in multiple studies. Thus, human microbiome data has a potential to be a great source of information for the diagnosis and disease characteristics (phenotypes, disease course, therapeutic response) of diseases with dysbiotic microbiota community. However, multiple attempts to leverage gut microbiota taxonomic data for diagnostic and disease characterization have failed due to significant inter-individual variability of microbiota community and overlap of disrupted microbiota communities among multiple diseases. One potential approach is to look at the microbiota community pattern and response to microbiota modifiers like dietary fiber in different disease states. This approach is now feasible by availability of machine learning that is able to identify hidden patterns in the human microbiome and predict diseases. Accordingly, the aim of our study was to test the hypothesis that application of machine learning algorithms can distinguish stool microbiota pattern and microbiota response to fiber between diseases where overlapping dysbiotic microbiota have been previously reported. Here, we have applied machine learning algorithms to distinguish between Parkinson's disease, Crohn's disease (CD), ulcerative colitis (UC), human immune deficiency virus (HIV), and healthy control (HC) subjects in the presence and absence of fiber treatments. We have shown that machine learning algorithms can classify diseases with accuracy as high as 95%. Furthermore, machine learning methods applied to the microbiome data to predict UC vs CD led to prediction accuracy as high as 90%.


37561259|t|Compound Dihuang Granule Changes Gut Microbiota of MPTP-Induced Parkinson's Disease Mice via Inhibiting TLR4/NF-κB Signaling.
37561259|w|Zhu-Qing He; Peng-Fei Huan; Li Wang; Jian-Cheng He
37561259|j|Neurochemical research
37561259|y|2023
37561259|a|Intestinal microbiota was connected to Parkinson's Disease (PD) pathology. The ancient Chinese medication for PD is Compound Dihuang Granule (CDG), and we found a neuroprotective function in treating the constipation of PD patients. Nevertheless, the mechanism of action still needs to be clarified. We predicted the probable targets of CDG against PD through Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) network pharmacology and verified the analysis through animal experiments in vivo. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis screened PD-related genes, including Toll-like receptor 4(TLR4), TANK-binding kinase 1(TBK1), Nuclear Factor- Kappa B (NF-κB), and Tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses proved that the NF-κB and toll-like receptor signaling pathways serve a key function in CDG therapy of PD. Molecular docking analysis demonstrated that CDG strongly connected to TLR4/NF-κB. Experiments findings indicated that CDG improved the damage of dopaminergic neurons and gut microbial dysbiosis, ameliorated motor impairments, and suppressed the PD-associated inflammation and oxidative stress in mice induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahy dropyridine (MPTP). CDG suppressed the inflammatory proteins in the colon and protected the intestinal barrier. Overall, CDG improved gut microbial in PD by blocking the pathway of TLR4/NF-κB.


36805171|t|The importance of gut-brain axis and use of probiotics as a treatment strategy for multiple sclerosis.
36805171|w|Nitish Kumar; Nalini Kanta Sahoo; Sidharth Mehan; Bharti Verma
36805171|j|Multiple sclerosis and related disorders
36805171|y|2023
36805171|a|It has been shown that the dysbiosis of the gut's microbes substantially impacts CNS illnesses, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, autism, and autoimmune diseases like multiple sclerosis (MS). MS is a CNS-affected autoimmune demyelination condition. Through a two-way communication pathway known as the gut-brain axis, gut microbes communicate with the CNS. When there is a disruption in the gut microbiome, cytokines and other immune cells are secreted, which affects the BBB and gastrointestinal permeability. Recent research using animal models has revealed that the gut microbiota may greatly influence the pathophysiology of EAE/MS. Any change in the gut might increase inflammatory cytokinesand affect the quantity of SCFAs, and other metabolites that cause neuroinflammation and demyelination. In- vivo and in-vitro studies have concluded that probiotics affect the immune system and can be utilized to treat gastrointestinal dysbiosis. Any alteration in the gut microbial composition caused by probiotic intake may serve as a preventive and treatment strategy for MS. The major goal of this review is to emphasize an overview of recent research on the function of gut microbiota in the onset of MS and how probiotics have a substantial impact on gastrointestinal disruption in MS and other neuro disorders. It will be easier to develop new therapeutic approaches, particularly probiotic-based supplements, for treating multiple sclerosis (MS) if we know the link between the gut and CNS.


37647997|t|Biomarkers of aging in frailty and age-associated disorders: State of the art and future perspective.
37647997|w|Stefano Salvioli; Maria Sofia Basile; Leonardo Bencivenga; Sara Carrino; Maria Conte; Sarah Damanti; Rebecca De Lorenzo; Eleonora Fiorenzato; Alessandro Gialluisi; Assunta Ingannato; Angelo Antonini; Nicola Baldini; Miriam Capri; Simone Cenci; Licia Iacoviello; Benedetta Nacmias; Fabiola Olivieri; Giuseppe Rengo; Patrizia Rovere Querini; Fabrizia Lattanzio
37647997|j|Ageing research reviews
37647997|y|2023
37647997|a|According to the Geroscience concept that organismal aging and age-associated diseases share the same basic molecular mechanisms, the identification of biomarkers of age that can efficiently classify people as biologically older (or younger) than their chronological (i.e. calendar) age is becoming of paramount importance. These people will be in fact at higher (or lower) risk for many different age-associated diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, neurodegeneration, cancer, etc. In turn, patients suffering from these diseases are biologically older than healthy age-matched individuals. Many biomarkers that correlate with age have been described so far. The aim of the present review is to discuss the usefulness of some of these biomarkers (especially soluble, circulating ones) in order to identify frail patients, possibly before the appearance of clinical symptoms, as well as patients at risk for age-associated diseases. An overview of selected biomarkers will be discussed in this regard, in particular we will focus on biomarkers related to metabolic stress response, inflammation, and cell death (in particular in neurodegeneration), all phenomena connected to inflammaging (chronic, low-grade, age-associated inflammation). In the second part of the review, next-generation markers such as extracellular vesicles and their cargos, epigenetic markers and gut microbiota composition, will be discussed. Since recent progresses in omics techniques have allowed an exponential increase in the production of laboratory data also in the field of biomarkers of age, making it difficult to extract biological meaning from the huge mass of available data, Artificial Intelligence (AI) approaches will be discussed as an increasingly important strategy for extracting knowledge from raw data and providing practitioners with actionable information to treat patients.


37171224|t|Possible Signaling Pathways in the Gut Microbiota-Brain Axis for the Development of Parkinson's Disease Caused by Chronic Consumption of Food Additives.
37171224|w|Melanie Verónica Martinez-Vega; Sebastián Galván-Menéndez-Conde; Verónica Freyre-Fonseca
37171224|j|ACS chemical neuroscience
37171224|y|2023
37171224|a|It is well-known that consumption of synthetic and natural food additives has both positive and negative effects in the human body. However, it is not clear yet how food additives are related to the development of Parkinson's disease. Therefore, in this review work, the food additive effects related to the gut microbiota-brain axis and the processes that are carried out to develop Parkinson's disease are studied. To this end, a systematic literature analysis is performed with the selected keywords and the food additive effects are studied to draw possible routes of action. This analysis leads to the proposition of a model that explains the pathways that relate the ingestion of food additives to the development of Parkinson's disease. This work motivates further research that ponders the safety of food additives by measuring their impacts over the gut microbiota-brain axis.


37630539|t|Personalized Response of Parkinson's Disease Gut Microbiota to Nootropic Medicinal Herbs In Vitro: A Proof of Concept.
37630539|w|Christine Tara Peterson; Stanislav N Iablokov; Dmitry A Rodionov; Scott N Peterson
37630539|j|Microorganisms
37630539|y|2023
37630539|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons. Although the etiology of PD remains elusive, it has been hypothesized that initial dysregulation may occur in the gastrointestinal tract and may be accompanied by gut barrier defects. A strong clinical interest in developing therapeutics exists, including for the treatment of gut microbiota and physiology. We previously reported the impact of healthy fecal microbiota anaerobic cultures supplemented with nootropic herbs. Here, we evaluated the effect of nootropic Ayurvedic herbs on fecal microbiota derived from subjects with PD in vitro using 16S rRNA sequencing. The microbiota underwent substantial change in response to each treatment, comparable in magnitude to that observed from healthy subjects. However, the fecal samples derived from each participant displayed unique changes, consistent with a personalized response. We used genome-wide metabolic reconstruction to predict the community's metabolic potential to produce products relevant to PD pathology, including SCFAs, vitamins and amino acid degradation products. These results suggest the potential value of conducting in vitro cultivation and analyses of PD stool samples as a means of prescreening patients to select the medicinal herbs for which that individual is most likely to respond and derive benefit.


37267589|t|A Low-Protein, High-Carbohydrate Diet Exerts a Neuroprotective Effect on Mice with 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-Induced Parkinson's Disease by Regulating the Microbiota-Metabolite-Brain Axis and Fibroblast Growth Factor 21.
37267589|w|Chuanqi Chu; Tiantian Li; Leilei Yu; Yiwen Li; Miaoyu Li; Min Guo; Jianxin Zhao; Qixiao Zhai; Fengwei Tian; Wei Chen
37267589|j|Journal of agricultural and food chemistry
37267589|y|2023
37267589|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is closely linked to lifestyle factors, particularly dietary patterns, which have attracted interest as potential disease-modifying factors. Eating a low-protein, high-carbohydrate (LPHC) diet is a promising dietary intervention against brain aging; however, its protective effect on PD remains elusive. Here, we found that an LPHC diet ameliorated 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrathydropyridine (MPTP)-induced motor deficits, decreased dopaminergic neuronal death, and increased the levels of striatal dopamine, serotonin, and their metabolites in PD mice. Levels of fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF-21), a member of the fibroblast growth factor family, were elevated in PD mice following LPHC treatment. Furthermore, the administration of FGF-21 exerted a protective effect on MPTP-induced PC12 cells, similar to the effect of an LPHC diet in MPTP-induced mice. Sequencing of the 16S rDNA from fecal microbiota revealed that an LPHC diet normalized the gut bacterial composition imbalance in PD mice, as evidenced by the increased abundance of the genera <i>Bifidobacterium</i>, <i>Ileibacterium</i>, <i>Turicibacter</i>, and <i>Blautia</i> and decreased abundance of <i>Bilophila, Alistipes</i>, and <i>Bacteroides</i>. PICRUSt-predicted fecal microbiome function revealed that an LPHC diet suppressed lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis and the citrate cycle (TCA cycle), biosynthesis of ubiquinone and other terpenoid-quinones, and oxidative phosphorylation pathways caused by MPTP, and enhanced the biosynthesis of amino acids, carbohydrate metabolism, and biosynthesis of other secondary metabolites. A nonmetabolomic analysis of the serum and feces showed that an LPHC diet significantly increased the levels of aromatic amino acids (AAAs), including tryptophan, tyrosine, and phenylalanine. In addition, an LPHC diet elevated the serum concentrations of bile acids (BAs), particularly tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA) and taurine. Collectively, our current findings point to the potential mechanism of administering an LPHC diet in attenuating movement impairments in MPTP-induced PD mice, with AAAs, microbial metabolites (TUDCA and taurine), and FGF-21 as key mediators along the gut-microbiota-brain axis.


36676436|t|Latent Potential of Multifunctional Selenium Nanoparticles in Neurological Diseases and Altered Gut Microbiota.
36676436|w|Hajra Ashraf; Davide Cossu; Stefano Ruberto; Marta Noli; Seyedesomaye Jasemi; Elena Rita Simula; Leonardo A Sechi
36676436|j|Materials (Basel, Switzerland)
36676436|y|2023
36676436|a|Neurological diseases remain a major concern due to the high world mortality rate and the absence of appropriate therapies to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Therefore, the major focus is on the development of such strategies that not only enhance the efficacy of drugs but also increase their permeability in the BBB. Currently, nano-scale materials seem to be an appropriate approach to treating neurological diseases based on their drug-loading capacity, reduced toxicity, targeted delivery, and enhanced therapeutic effect. Selenium (Se) is an essential micronutrient and has been of remarkable interest owing to its essential role in the physiological activity of the nervous system, i.e., signal transmission, memory, coordination, and locomotor activity. A deficiency of Se leads to various neurological diseases such as Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, and Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, owing to the neuroprotective role of Se (selenium) nanoparticles (SeNPs) are of particular interest to treat neurological diseases. To date, many studies investigate the role of altered microbiota with neurological diseases; thus, the current review focused not only on the recent advancement in the field of nanotechnology, considering SeNPs to cure neurological diseases, but also on investigating the potential role of SeNPs in altered microbiota.


37458987|t|Dissecting the Relationship Between Neuropsychiatric and Neurodegenerative Disorders.
37458987|w|Rohan Gupta; Dia Advani; Divya Yadav; Rashmi K Ambasta; Pravir Kumar
37458987|j|Molecular neurobiology
37458987|y|2023
37458987|a|Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) and neuropsychiatric disorders (NPDs) are two common causes of death in elderly people, which includes progressive neuronal cell death and behavioral changes. NDDs include Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, and motor neuron disease, characterized by cognitive defects and memory impairment, whereas NPDs include depression, seizures, migraine headaches, eating disorders, addictions, palsies, major depressive disorders, anxiety, and schizophrenia, characterized by behavioral changes. Mounting evidence demonstrated that NDDs and NPDs share an overlapping mechanism, which includes post-translational modifications, the microbiota-gut-brain axis, and signaling events. Mounting evidence demonstrated that various drug molecules, namely, natural compounds, repurposed drugs, multitarget directed ligands, and RNAs, have been potentially implemented as therapeutic agents against NDDs and NPDs. Herein, we highlighted the overlapping mechanism, the role of anxiety/stress-releasing factors, cytosol-to-nucleus signaling, and the microbiota-gut-brain axis in the pathophysiology of NDDs and NPDs. We summarize the therapeutic application of natural compounds, repurposed drugs, and multitarget-directed ligands as therapeutic agents. Lastly, we briefly described the application of RNA interferences as therapeutic agents in the pathogenesis of NDDs and NPDs. Neurodegenerative diseases and neuropsychiatric diseases both share a common signaling molecule and molecular phenomenon, namely, pro-inflammatory cytokines, γCaMKII and MAPK/ERK, chemokine receptors, BBB permeability, and the gut-microbiota-brain axis. Studies have demonstrated that any alterations in the signaling mentioned above molecules and molecular phenomena lead to the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases, namely, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and neuropsychiatric disorders, such as bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, depression, anxiety, autism spectrum disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorder.


37755674|t|Relationship Between Short-chain Fatty Acids and Parkinson's Disease: A Review from Pathology to Clinic.
37755674|w|Wen-Xiang Duan; Fen Wang; Jun-Yi Liu; Chun-Feng Liu
37755674|j|Neuroscience bulletin
37755674|y|2024
37755674|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complicated neurodegenerative disease, characterized by the accumulation of α-synuclein (α-syn) in Lewy bodies and neurites, and massive loss of midbrain dopamine neurons. Increasing evidence suggests that gut microbiota and microbial metabolites are involved in the development of PD. Among these, short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), the most abundant microbial metabolites, have been proven to play a key role in brain-gut communication. In this review, we analyze the role of SCFAs in the pathology of PD from multiple dimensions and summarize the alterations of SCFAs in PD patients as well as their correlation with motor and non-motor symptoms. Future research should focus on further elucidating the role of SCFAs in neuroinflammation, as well as developing novel strategies employing SCFAs and their derivatives to treat PD.


37460539|t|Neuroprotective effect of a medium-chain triglyceride ketogenic diet on MPTP-induced Parkinson's disease mice: a combination of transcriptomics and metabolomics in the substantia nigra and fecal microbiome.
37460539|w|Wenlong Zhang; Shiyu Chen; Xingting Huang; Huichun Tong; Hongxin Niu; Lingli Lu
37460539|j|Cell death discovery
37460539|y|2023
37460539|a|The ketogenic diet (KD) is a low carbohydrate and high-fat protein diet. It plays a protective role in neurodegenerative diseases by elevating the levels of ketone bodies in blood, regulating central and peripheral metabolism and mitochondrial functions, inhibiting neuroinflammation and oxidative stress, and altering the gut microbiota. However, studies on ketogenic therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD) are still in their infancy. Therefore, we examined the possible protective effect of KD in a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD mouse model, examined the mouse gut microbiota and its metabolites, and performed transcriptomics and metabolomics on the substantia nigra of mice. Our results showed that a long-term medium-chain triglyceride KD (MCT-KD) significantly reduced MPTP-induced damage to dopaminergic (DA) neurons, exerted antioxidant stress through the PI3K/Akt/Nrf2 pathway, and reversed oxidative stress in DA neurons. The MCT-KD also reduced mitochondrial loss, promoted ATP production, and inhibited the activation of microglia to protect DA neurons in MPTP-induced PD mice. MCT-KD altered the gut microbiota and consequently changed the metabolism of substantia nigra neurons through gut microbiota metabolites. Compared to the MPTP group, MCT-KD increased the abundance of gut microbiota, including Blautia and Romboutsia. MCT-KD also affects purine metabolism in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) by altering fecal metabolites. This study shows that MCT-KD has multiple protective effects against PD.


37107583|t|Role of Microbiota-Modified Bile Acids in the Regulation of Intracellular Organelles and Neurodegenerative Diseases.
37107583|w|Yoshimitsu Kiriyama; Hiromi Nochi
37107583|j|Genes
37107583|y|2023
37107583|a|Bile acids (BAs) are amphiphilic steroidal molecules generated from cholesterol in the liver and facilitate the digestion and absorption of fat-soluble substances in the gut. Some BAs in the intestine are modified by the gut microbiota. Because BAs are modified in a variety of ways by different types of bacteria present in the gut microbiota, changes in the gut microbiota can affect the metabolism of BAs in the host. Although most BAs absorbed from the gut are transferred to the liver, some are transferred to the systemic circulation. Furthermore, BAs have also been detected in the brain and are thought to migrate into the brain through the systemic circulation. Although BAs are known to affect a variety of physiological functions by acting as ligands for various nuclear and cell-surface receptors, BAs have also been found to act on mitochondria and autophagy in the cell. This review focuses on the BAs modified by the gut microbiota and their roles in intracellular organelles and neurodegenerative diseases.


37589449|t|Communal interaction of glycation and gut microbes in diabetes mellitus, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease pathogenesis.
37589449|w|Rahul Shivaji Patil; Rashmi Santosh Tupe
37589449|j|Medicinal research reviews
37589449|y|2024
37589449|a|Diabetes and its complications, Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Parkinson's disease (PD) are increasing gradually, reflecting a global threat vis-à-vis expressing the essentiality of a substantial paradigm shift in research and remedial actions. Protein glycation is influenced by several factors, like time, temperature, pH, metal ions, and the half-life of the protein. Surprisingly, most proteins associated with metabolic and neurodegenerative disorders are generally long-lived and hence susceptible to glycation. Remarkably, proteins linked with diabetes, AD, and PD share this characteristic. This modulates protein's structure, aggregation tendency, and toxicity, highlighting renovated attention. Gut microbes and microbial metabolites marked their importance in human health and diseases. Though many scientific shreds of evidence are proposed for possible change and dysbiosis in gut flora in these diseases, very little is known about the mechanisms. Screening and unfolding their functionality in metabolic and neurodegenerative disorders is essential in hunting the gut treasure. Therefore, it is imperative to evaluate the role of glycation as a common link in diabetes and neurodegenerative diseases, which helps to clarify if modulation of nonenzymatic glycation may act as a beneficial therapeutic strategy and gut microbes/metabolites may answer some of the crucial questions. This review briefly emphasizes the common functional attributes of glycation and gut microbes, the possible linkages, and discusses current treatment options and therapeutic challenges.


37496895|t|<i>Acanthopanax senticosus</i> Harms improves Parkinson's disease by regulating gut microbial structure and metabolic disorders.
37496895|w|Yi Lu; Xin Gao; Yang Nan; Shadi A D Mohammed; Jiaqi Fu; Tianyu Wang; Chongzhi Wang; Chunsu Yuan; Fang Lu; Shumin Liu
37496895|j|Heliyon
37496895|y|2023
37496895|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, with an increasing prevalence as the population ages, posing a serious threat to human health, but the pathogenesis remains uncertain. <i>Acanthopanax senticosus</i> (Rupr. et Maxim.) Harms (ASH) (aqueous ethanol extract), a Chinese herbal medicine, provides obvious and noticeable therapeutic effects on PD. To further investigate the ASH's mechanism of action in treating PD, the structural and functional gut microbiota, as well as intestinal metabolite before and after ASH intervention in the PD mice model, were examined utilizing metagenomics and fecal metabolomics analysis. α-syn transgenic mice were randomly divided into a model and ASH groups, with C57BL/6 mice as a control. The ASH group was gavaged with ASH (45.5 mg/kg/d for 20d). The time of pole climbing and autonomous activity were used to assess motor ability. The gut microbiota's structure, composition, and function were evaluated using Illumina sequencing. Fecal metabolites were identified using UHPLC-MS/MS to construct intestinal metabolites. The findings of this experiment demonstrate that ASH may reduce the climbing time of PD model mice while increasing the number of autonomous movements. The results of metagenomics analysis revealed that ASH could up-regulated <i>Firmicutes</i> and down-regulated <i>Actinobacteria</i> at the phylum level, while <i>Clostridium</i> was up-regulated and <i>Akkermansia</i> was down-regulated at the genus level; it could also recall 49 species from the phylum <i>Firmicutes</i>, <i>Actinobacteria</i>, and <i>Tenericutes</i>. Simultaneously, metabolomics analysis revealed that alpha-Linolenic acid metabolism might be a key metabolic pathway for ASH to impact in PD. Furthermore, metagenomics function analysis and metabolic pathway enrichment analysis revealed that ASH might influence unsaturated fatty acid synthesis and purine metabolism pathways. These metabolic pathways are connected to ALA, Palmitic acid, Adenine, and 16 species of <i>Firmicutes</i>, <i>Actinobacteria</i>, and <i>Tenericutes</i>. Finally, these results indicate that ASH may alleviate the movement disorder of the PD model, which may be connected to the regulation of gut microbiota structure and function as well as the modulation of metabolic disorders by ASH.


36803806|t|Disease mechanisms as subtypes: Microbiome.
36803806|w|Salvatore Bonvegna; Roberto Cilia
36803806|j|Handbook of clinical neurology
36803806|y|2023
36803806|a|Abnormalities in gut microbiota have been suggested to be involved in the pathophysiology and progression of Parkinson's disease (PD). Gastrointestinal nonmotor symptoms often precede the onset of motor features in PD, suggesting a role for gut dysbiosis in neuroinflammation and α-synuclein (α-syn) aggregation. In the first part of this chapter, we analyze critical features of healthy gut microbiota and factors (environmental and genetic) that modify its composition. In the second part, we focus on the mechanisms underlying the gut dysbiosis and how it alters anatomically and functionally the mucosal barrier, triggering neuroinflammation and subsequently α-syn aggregation. In the third part, we describe the most common alterations in the gut microbiota of PD patients, dividing the gastrointestinal system in higher and lower tract to examine the association between microbiota abnormalities and clinical features. In the final section, we report on current and future therapeutic approaches to gut dysbiosis aiming to either reduce the risk for PD, modify the disease course, or improve the pharmacokinetic profile of dopaminergic therapies. We also suggest that further studies will be needed to clarify the role of the microbiome in PD subtyping and of pharmacological and nonpharmacological interventions in modifying specific microbiota profiles in individualizing disease-modifying treatments in PD.


36671785|t|Parkinson's Disease, It Takes Guts: The Correlation between Intestinal Microbiome and Cytokine Network with Neurodegeneration.
36671785|w|Georgia Xiromerisiou; Chrysoula Marogianni; Anastasia Androutsopoulou; Panagiotis Ntavaroukas; Dimitrios Mysiris; Stamatia Papoutsopoulou
36671785|j|Biology
36671785|y|2023
36671785|a|Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with motor, physical and behavioral symptoms that can have a profound impact on the patient's quality of life. Most cases are idiopathic, and the exact mechanism of the disease's cause is unknown. The current hypothesis focuses on the gut-brain axis and states that gut microbiota dysbiosis can trigger inflammation and advances the development of Parkinson's disease. This systematic review presents the current knowledge of gut microbiota analysis and inflammation based on selected studies on Parkinson's patients and experimental animal models. Changes in gut microbiota correlate with Parkinson's disease, but only a few studies have considered inflammatory modulators as important triggers of the disease. Nevertheless, it is evident that proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines are induced in the gut, the circulation, and the brain before the development of the disease's neurological symptoms and exacerbate the disease. Increased levels of tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, interleukin-17A and interferon-γ can correlate with altered gut microbiota. Instead, treatment of gut dysbiosis is accompanied by reduced levels of inflammatory mediators in specific tissues, such as the colon, brain and serum and/or cerebrospinal fluid. Deciphering the role of the immune responses and the mechanisms of the PD-associated gut microbiota will assist the interpretation of the pathogenesis of Parkinson's and will elucidate appropriate therapeutic strategies.


38146566|t|Effectiveness of the Combination of Probiotic Supplementation on Motor Symptoms and Constipation in Parkinson's Disease.
38146566|w|Athanasia Alexoudi; Lydia Kesidou; Stylianos Gatzonis; Christos Charalampopoulos; Areti Tsoga
38146566|j|Cureus
38146566|y|2023
38146566|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) reflects the second most common neurodegenerative disorder and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. Besides the motor features, non-motor symptoms, such as constipation, are very common. There is accumulating evidence that neuroinflammation is associated with the PD pathological processes. Alterations of gut microbiota and microbial metabolites have been linked to the pathogenesis of PD. Previous research has shown that probiotic supplementation has beneficial effects on motor and non-motor symptoms and especially on constipation. In this study, we examine the effectiveness of a combination of probiotic supplementation (butyrate triglyceride 302.86 mg, <i>Crocus sativus L.</i> 30 mg, and vitamin D3 100 mcg), on constipation and motor symptoms in PD. The present study is a retrospective study that examined the existing medical records of patients with diagnosed PD, having chronic constipation and used the probiotic supplementation for its management. A total of 41 existing medical records were screened. Medical records were excluded in the case of participation in another study for PD, suffering from irritable bowel syndrome, organic constipation, long-term laxative use changes in the standard dopaminergic treatment, Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) score<24, hospitalization and antibiotic medication, and diarrheal syndrome. Nine medical records were excluded, and a final number of 32 medical records was finally examined. All 32 patients had evaluations carried out at baseline and three months after supplement administration. A stool diary questionnaire, the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale III (UPDRS III), and the Schwab and England and the Hoehn and Yahr scales were used for the evaluation. The median defecation frequency was significantly improved. The supplementation administration significantly improved UPDRS III by 7.7% (from 35.72±15.51 to 32.97±15.71, p = 0.005) at month three, as compared to baseline. A positive effect was also seen in the Schwab and England scale. There was no effect on the Hoehn and Yahr scale. The enteric microbiome composition is altered in PD, and there is accumulating evidence that probiotic supplementation could alleviate disease symptoms in neuroinflammatory disorders.


37298727|t|Zooming into Gut Dysbiosis in Parkinson's Disease: New Insights from Functional Mapping.
37298727|w|Luigia Turco; Nicola Opallo; Elisabetta Buommino; Carmen De Caro; Claudio Pirozzi; Giuseppina Mattace Raso; Francesca Lembo; Lorena Coretti
37298727|j|International journal of molecular sciences
37298727|y|2023
37298727|a|Gut dysbiosis has been involved in the pathogenesis and progression of Parkinson's disease (PD), but the mechanisms through which gut microbiota (GM) exerts its influences deserve further study. Recently, we proposed a two-hit mouse model of PD in which ceftriaxone (CFX)-induced dysbiosis amplifies the neurodegenerative phenotype generated by striatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) injection in mice. Low GM diversity and the depletion of key gut colonizers and butyrate producers were the main signatures of GM alteration in this model. Here, we used the phylogenetic investigation of communities by reconstruction of unobserved states (PICRUSt2) to unravel candidate pathways of cell-to-cell communication associated with dual-hit mice and potentially involved in PD progression. We focused our analysis on short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) metabolism and quorum sensing (QS) signaling. Based on linear discriminant analysis, combined with the effect size results, we found increased functions linked to pyruvate utilization and a depletion of acetate and butyrate production in 6-OHDA+CFX mice. The specific arrangement of QS signaling as a possible result of the disrupted GM structure was also observed. With this exploratory study, we suggested a scenario in which SCFAs metabolism and QS signaling might represent the effectors of gut dysbiosis potentially involved in the designation of the functional outcomes that contribute to the exacerbation of the neurodegenerative phenotype in the dual-hit animal model of PD.


37562163|t|Effects of a high saturated fatty acid diet on the intestinal microbiota modification and associated impacts on Parkinson's disease development.
37562163|w|Sophia Alexandre de Queiroz Cavalcanti; Leonardo Augusto de Almeida; Juciano Gasparotto
37562163|j|Journal of neuroimmunology
37562163|y|2023
37562163|a|Recent research has focused on the link between diet, intestinal microbiota, and the impact of excessive consumption of saturated fatty acids. Saturated fatty acids, found in animal fats, dairy, and processed foods, contribute to dysbiosis, increase intestinal barrier permeability, chronic low-grade inflammation, oxidative stress, and dysfunction of the blood-brain barrier, affecting the central nervous system. High intake of saturated fatty acids is associated with an increased risk of developing Parkinson's disease (PD). Diets low in saturated fats, rich in fibers, promote microbial diversity, improve gut health, and potentially reduce the risk of neurodegenerative diseases like PD.


37628082|t|Dietary Polysaccharides Exert Anti-Fatigue Functions via the Gut-Muscle Axis: Advances and Prospectives.
37628082|w|Yaping Zhou; Zhongxing Chu; Yi Luo; Feiyan Yang; Fuliang Cao; Feijun Luo; Qinlu Lin
37628082|j|Foods (Basel, Switzerland)
37628082|y|2023
37628082|a|Due to today's fast-paced lifestyle, most people are in a state of sub-health and face "unexplained fatigue", which can seriously affect their health, work efficiency, and quality of life. Fatigue is also a common symptom of several serious diseases such as Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, cancer, etc. However, the contributing mechanisms are not clear, and there are currently no official recommendations for the treatment of fatigue. Some dietary polysaccharides are often used as health care supplements; these have been reported to have specific anti-fatigue effects, with minor side effects and rich pharmacological activities. Dietary polysaccharides can be activated during food processing or during gastrointestinal transit, exerting unique effects. This review aims to comprehensively summarize and evaluate the latest advances in the biological processes of exercise-induced fatigue, to understand dietary polysaccharides and their possible molecular mechanisms in alleviating exercise-induced fatigue, and to systematically elaborate the roles of gut microbiota and the gut-muscle axis in this process. From the perspective of the gut-muscle axis, investigating the relationship between polysaccharides and fatigue will enhance our understanding of fatigue and may lead to a significant breakthrough regarding the molecular mechanism of fatigue. This paper will provide new perspectives for further research into the use of polysaccharides in food science and food nutrition, which could help develop potential anti-fatigue agents and open up novel therapies for sub-health conditions.


37747555|t|Diet-gut microbiome interaction and ferulic acid bioavailability: implications on neurodegenerative disorders.
37747555|w|Saarika Pothuvan Kunnummal; Mahejibin Khan
37747555|j|European journal of nutrition
37747555|y|2024
37747555|a|Ferulic acid (FA), which occurs naturally as the feruloylated sugar ester in grains, fruits, and vegetables, is critical for combating oxidative stress and alleviating neurodegenerative diseases resulting from free radical-generated protein aggregates in brain cells. However, FA cannot be absorbed in conjugated form. Therefore, strategies to improve the bioavailability of FA are gaining more importance. Ferulic acid esterases (FAE) of the gut microbiota are critical enzymes that facilitate FA release from feruloylated sugar ester conjugates and influence systemic health. This review provides insight into a nutrition-based approach to preventing neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's by altering the diversity of FAE-producing gut microbiota. The human gut is a niche for a highly dense microbial population. Nutrient components and the quality of food shape the gut microbiota. Microbiota-diet-host interaction primarily involves an array of enzymes that hydrolyse complex polysaccharides and release covalently attached moieties, thereby increasing their bio-accessibility. Moreover, genes encoding polysaccharide degrading enzymes are substrate inducible, giving selective microorganisms a competitive advantage in scavenging nutrients. Nutraceutical therapy using specific food components holds promise as a prophylactic agent and as an adjunctive treatment strategy in neurotherapeutics, as it results in upregulation of polysaccharide utilisation loci containing fae genes in the gut microbiota, thereby increasing the release of FA and other antioxidant molecules and combat neurodegenerative processes.


37487923|t|Metals linked with the most prevalent primary neurodegenerative dementias in the elderly: A narrative review.
37487923|w|David Mateo; Montse Marquès; Margarita Torrente
37487923|j|Environmental research
37487923|y|2023
37487923|a|The ageing population has been steadily increasing worldwide, leading to a higher risk of cognitive decline and dementia. Environmental toxicants, particularly metals, have been identified as modifiable risk factors for cognitive impairment. Continuous exposure to metals occurs mainly through dietary sources, with older adults being particularly vulnerable. However, imbalances in the gut microbiota, known as dysbiosis, have also been associated with dementia. A literature review was conducted to explore the potential role of metals in the development of cognitive decline and the most prevalent primary neurodegenerative dementias, as well as their interaction with the gut microbiota. High levels of iron (Fe) and copper (Cu) are associated with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), while low selenium (Se) levels are linked to poor cognitive status. Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) is associated with elevated levels of iron (Fe), manganese (Mn), and zinc (Zn), but the role of copper (Cu) remains unclear. The relationship between metals and Lewy body dementia (LBD) requires further investigation. High aluminium (Al) exposure is associated with frontotemporal dementia (FTD), and elevated selenium (Se) levels may be linked to its onset. Challenges in comparing studies arise from the heterogeneity of metal analysis matrices and analytical techniques, as well as the limitations of small study cohorts. More research is needed to understand the influence of metals on cognition through the gut microbiota (GMB) and its potential relevance in the development of these diseases.


37851313|t|Gut-Brain Axis a Key Player to Control Gut Dysbiosis in Neurological Diseases.
37851313|w|Ieshita Pan; Praveen Kumar Issac; Md Mostafizur Rahman; Ajay Guru; Jesu Arockiaraj
37851313|j|Molecular neurobiology
37851313|y|2023
37851313|a|Parkinson's disease is a chronic neuropathy characterised by the formation of Lewy bodies (misfolded alpha-synuclein) in dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra and other parts of the brain. Dopaminergic neurons play a vital role in generating both motor and non-motor symptoms. Finding therapeutic targets for Parkinson's disease (PD) is hindered due to an incomplete understanding of the disease's pathophysiology. Existing evidence suggests that the gut microbiota participates in the pathogenesis of PD via immunological, neuroendocrine, and direct neural mechanisms. Gut microbial dysbiosis triggers the loss of dopaminergic neurons via mitochondrial dysfunction. Gut dysbiosis triggers bacterial overgrowth in the small intestine, which increases the permeability barrier and induces systemic inflammation. It results in excessive stimulation of the innate immune system. In addition to that, activation of enteric neurons and enteric glial cells initiates the aggregation of alpha-synuclein. This alpha-synucleinopathy thus affects all levels of the brain-gut axis, including the central, autonomic, and enteric nervous systems. Though the neurobiological signaling cascade between the gut microbiome and the central nervous system is poorly understood, gut microbial metabolites may serve as a promising therapeutic strategy for PD. This article summarises all the known possible ways of bidirectional signal communication, i.e., the "gut-brain axis," where microbes from the middle gut interact with the brain and vice versa, and highlights a unique way to treat neurodegenerative diseases by maintaining homeostasis. The tenth cranial nerve (vagus nerve) plays a significant part in this signal communication. However, the leading regulatory factor for this axis is a diet that helps with microbial colonisation and brain function. Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), derived from microbially fermented dietary fibres, link host nutrition to maintain intestinal homeostasis. In addition to that, probiotics modulate cognitive function and the metabolic and behavioural conditions of the body. As technology advances, new techniques will emerge to study the tie-up between gut microbes and neuronal diseases.


37579835|t|Unveiling the role of gut-brain axis in regulating neurodegenerative diseases: A comprehensive review.
37579835|w|Himanshi Yadav; Jaldhi; Rati Bhardwaj; Anamika; Amrita Bakshi; Suchi Gupta; Shashank Kumar Maurya
37579835|j|Life sciences
37579835|y|2023
37579835|a|Emerging evidence have shown the importance of gut microbiota in regulating brain functions. The diverse molecular mechanisms involved in cross-talk between gut and brain provide insight into importance of this communication in maintenance of brain homeostasis. It has also been observed that disturbed gut microbiota contributes to neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and aging. Recently, gut microbiome-derived exosomes have also been reported to play an essential role in the development and progression of neurodegenerative diseases and could thereby act as a therapeutic target. Further, pharmacological interventions including antibiotics, prebiotics and probiotics can influence gut microbiome-mediated management of neurological diseases. However, extensive research is warranted to better comprehend this interconnection in maintenance of brain homeostasis and its implication in neurological diseases. Thus, the present review is aimed to provide a detailed understanding of gut-brain axis followed by possibilities to target the gut microbiome for improving neurological health.


36708421|t|Gut Microbial Alteration in MPTP Mouse Model of Parkinson Disease is Administration Regimen Dependent.
36708421|w|Busra Aktas
36708421|j|Cellular and molecular neurobiology
36708421|y|2023
36708421|a|Parkinson Disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders characterized by loss of dopaminergic neurons involved in motor functions. Growing evidence indicates that gut microbiota communicates with the brain known as the gut-brain axis (GBA). Mitochondrial toxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is commonly used in animal studies to investigate the GBA in PD. Various MPTP administration regimens are performed in PD mouse models involving one to multiple injections in 1 day or one injection per day for several days. The aim of this study is to investigate if the impact of MPTP on gut microbiota differs depending on the administration regimen. C57BL/6 mice were treated with acute or subchronic regimens of MPTP. Motor functions were assessed by open-field, catalepsy, and wire hanging tests. The cecum and the brain samples were obtained for microbiota and gene expression analyses, respectively. MPTP administration regimens differed in their ability to alter the gut microbiota. Firmicutes and Bacteroidota were both increased in subchronic mice while did not change and decreased, respectively, in acute mice. Verrucomicrobiota was elevated in acute MPTP mice but dropped in subchronic MPTP mice. Muribaculaceae was the predominant genus in all groups but acute mice. In acute mice, Akkermansia was increased and Colidextribacter was decreased; however, they showed an opposite trend in subchronic mice. These data suggest that MPTP mouse model cause a gut microbiota dysbiosis in an administration regimen dependent manner, and it is important to take consideration of mouse model to investigate the GBA in neurodegenerative diseases including PD.


37102320|t|The protective role of microbiota in the prevention of MPTP/P-induced Parkinson's disease by resveratrol.
37102320|w|Jing Tao; Yunying An; Lingyun Xu; Yuxin Wang; Chaowei Wang; Puze Li; Min Li; Dong Yan; Mingyong Wang; Genshen Zhong; Minna Wu
37102320|j|Food & function
37102320|y|2023
37102320|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a tricky neurodegenerative disease characterized with motor deficits and gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction. Gut microbiota disturbance is reported to be involved in the clinical phenotypes of PD and its pathogenesis through the brain-gut-microbiota axis. Resveratrol is a natural polyphenol that possesses various biological activities in alleviating many diseases, including PD. The present study was aimed to investigate the role of gut microbiota in resveratrol-treated PD mice. A chronic mouse model of PD was generated <i>via</i> the injection of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and probenecid (MPTP/P) for 5 consecutive weeks. Resveratrol was orally administered once a day (30 mg kg<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>) for a total of 8 weeks. From the 6<sup>th</sup> week to the 8<sup>th</sup> week, fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) was performed from resveratrol-treated PD mice to PD mice to evaluate the contribution of resveratrol-shaped microbiota in the alleviation of PD. The results showed that FMT from resveratrol-shaped microbiota remarkably alleviated the mice phenotype from PD progression, including increased latency in the rotarod, shortened beam walking time, increased the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and enriched TH-positive fiber density in the striatum. Further experiments revealed that FMT could ameliorate the GI dysfunction by increasing the small intestinal transport rate and the colon length, decreasing the relative abundances of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-1β) in colon epithelial tissue. The 16S rDNA sequencing indicated that FMT attenuated the gut microbial dysbiosis in PD mice by increasing the abundances of Prevotellaceae, Rikenellaceae, Erysipelotrichaceae, <i>Blautia</i> and <i>Alistipes</i>, lowering the ratio of Fimicutes/Bacteroidetes, and decreasing the abundances of Lachnospiraceae and <i>Akkermansia</i>. Therefore, results in this study demonstrated that gut microbiota played a vital role in the prevention of PD progression, and the shaping of the gut microbiota was the pharmacological mechanism of resveratrol in alleviating the phenotype of Parkinson's disease in PD mice.


37968765|t|Compositional changes in fecal microbiota in a new Parkinson's disease model: C57BL/6-Tg(NSE-haSyn) mice.
37968765|w|Ji Eun Kim; Ki Chun Kwon; You Jeong Jin; Ayun Seol; Hee Jin Song; Yu Jeong Roh; Tae Ryeol Kim; Eun Seo Park; Gi Ho Park; Ji Won Park; Young Suk Jung; Joon Yong Cho; Dae Youn Hwang
37968765|j|Laboratory animal research
37968765|y|2023
37968765|a|The gut-brain axis (GBA) in Parkinson's disease (PD) has only been investigated in limited mice models despite dysbiosis of the gut microbiota being considered one of the major treatment targets for neurodegenerative disease. Therefore, this study examined the compositional changes of fecal microbiota in novel transgenic (Tg) mice overexpressing human α-synuclein (hαSyn) proteins under the neuron-specific enolase (NSE) to analyze the potential as GBA model. The expression level of the αSyn proteins was significantly higher in the substantia nigra and striatum of NSE-hαSyn Tg mice than the Non-Tg mice, while those of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) were decreased in the same group. In addition, a decrease of 72.7% in the fall times and a 3.8-fold increase in the fall number was detected in NSE-hαSyn Tg mice. The villus thickness and crypt length on the histological structure of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract decreased in NSE-hαSyn Tg mice. Furthermore, the NSE-hαSyn Tg mice exhibited a significant increase in 11 genera, including Scatolibacter, Clostridium, Feifania, Lachnoclostridium, and Acetatifactor population, and a decrease in only two genera in Ligilactobacillus and Sangeribacter population during enhancement of microbiota richness and diversity. The motor coordination and balance dysfunction of NSE-hαSyn Tg mice may be associated with compositional changes in gut microbiota. In addition, these mice have potential as a GBA model.


37562867|t|Immunology and microbiome: Implications for motor systems.
37562867|w|Yasamin Mahjoub; Davide Martino
37562867|j|Handbook of clinical neurology
37562867|y|2023
37562867|a|Immune-inflammatory mechanisms seem to play a relevant role in neurodegenerative disorders affecting motor systems, particularly Parkinson's disease, where activity changes in inflammatory cells and evidence of neuroinflammation in experimental models and patients is available. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is also characterized by neuroinflammatory changes that involve primarily glial cells, both microglia and astrocytes, as well as systemic immune dysregulation associated with more rapid progression. Similarly, the exploration of gut dysbiosis in these two prototypical neurodegenerative motor disorders is advancing rapidly. Altered composition of gut microbial constituents and related metabolic and putative functional pathways is supporting a pathophysiological link that is currently explored in preclinical, germ-free animal models. Less compelling, but still intriguing, evidence suggests that motor neurodevelopmental disorders, e.g., Tourette syndrome, are associated with abnormal trajectories of maturation that include also immune system development. Microglia has a key role also in these disorders, and new therapeutic avenues aiming at its modulation are exciting prospects. Preclinical and clinical research on the role of gut dysbiosis in Tourette syndrome and related behavioral disorders is still in its infancy, but early findings support the rationale to delve deeper into its contribution to neural and immune maturation abnormalities in its spectrum.


37266763|t|Orally Induced High Serum Level of Trimethylamine N-oxide Worsened Glial Reaction and Neuroinflammation on MPTP-Induced Acute Parkinson's Disease Model Mice.
37266763|w|Chen-Meng Qiao; Wei Quan; Yu Zhou; Gu-Yu Niu; Hui Hong; Jian Wu; Li-Ping Zhao; Ting Li; Chun Cui; Wei-Jiang Zhao; Yan-Qin Shen
37266763|j|Molecular neurobiology
37266763|y|2023
37266763|a|Neuroinflammation mediated by brain glial cells is one of the pathological drivers of Parkinson's disease (PD). Recent studies have shown that higher circulating trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO, a gut microbiota-derived metabolite) can induce neuroinflammation and are strongly related to a variety of central nervous system diseases and adverse brain events. Herein, we explored the effect of pre-existing higher circulating TMAO on dopamine system and neuroinflammation in acute PD model mice induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydroxypyridine (MPTP). TMAO pretreatment was given by adding 3% (w/v) TMAO to drinking water of mice for 21 days to induce higher circulating TMAO status, then mice were administered with MPTP (20 mg/kg, i.p) for four times in one day to construct an acute PD model mice and treated with TMAO continuously until the end of the experiment. Results demonstrated that TMAO treatment significantly increased serum TMAO levels. Moreover, high serum TMAO significantly increased activation of microglia and astrocytes both in striatum and in substantia nigra. And strikingly, high serum TMAO significantly promoted the metabolism of striatal dopamine (DA) of PD model mice, although it had no significant effect on the number of dopaminergic neurons or the content of DA. Furthermore, immunofluorescence, ELISA, and RT-qPCR results of the hippocampus also showed that high serum TMAO significantly promoted the activation of microglia and astrocytes in the dentate gyrus, increased the levels of TNF-α and IL-1β, and upregulated gene expression of M1 microglia-related markers (including CD16, CD32, and iNOS) and A2 astrocyte-related markers (including S100a10, Ptx3, and Emp1) in mRNA levels. In summary, we found that pre-existing high serum levels of TMAO worsened the PD-related brain pathology by promoting DA metabolism, aggravating neuroinflammation and regulating glial cell polarization.


36824263|t|Effects of levodopa on gut bacterial antibiotic resistance in Parkinson's disease rat.
36824263|w|Shuo Sheng; Xianwei Li; Shuo Zhao; Changqing Zheng; Feng Zhang
36824263|j|Frontiers in aging neuroscience
36824263|y|2023
36824263|a|The second most prevalent neurodegenerative ailment, Parkinson's disease (PD), is characterized by both motor and non-motor symptoms. Levodopa is the backbone of treatment for PD at the moment. However, levodopa-induced side effects, such as dyskinesia, are commonly seen in PD patients. Recently, several antibiotics were found to present neuroprotective properties against neurodegenerative and neuro-inflammatory processes, which might be developed to effective therapies against PD. In this study, we aimed to identify if levodopa treatment could influence the gut bacterial antibiotic resistance in PD rat. Fecal samples were collected from healthy rats and 6-OHDA induced PD rats treated with different doses of levodopa, metagenomic sequencing data showed that levodopa resulted in gut bacteria composition change, the biomarkers of gut bacteria analyzed by LEfSe changed as well. More interestingly, compared with levodopa (5 mg/kg)-treated or no levodopa-treated PD rats, levodopa (10 mg/kg) caused a significant decrease in the abundance of tetW and vanTG genes in intestinal bacteria, which were related to tetracycline and vancomycin resistance, while the abundance of AAC6-lb-Suzhou gene increased apparently, which was related to aminoglycosides resistance, even though the total quantity of Antibiotic Resistance Gene (ARG) and Antibiotic Resistance Ontology (ARO) among all groups did not significantly differ. Consequently, our results imply that the combination of levodopa and antibiotics, such as tetracycline and vancomycin, in the treatment of PD may decrease the amount of corresponding antibiotic resistance genes in gut bacteria, which would give a theoretical basis for treating PD with levodopa combined with tetracycline and vancomycin in the future.


38075226|t|Unveiling the neuroprotective potential of dietary polysaccharides: a systematic review.
38075226|w|Rui Guo; Jingxi Pang; Junhe Zhao; Xiao Xiao; Jing Li; Jingmeng Li; Wenxiu Wang; Shuang Zhou; Yu Zhao; Zilong Zhang; Hongwang Chen; Tian Yuan; Shan Wu; Zhigang Liu
38075226|j|Frontiers in nutrition
38075226|y|2023
38075226|a|Central nervous system (CNS) disorders present a growing and costly global health challenge, accounting for over 11% of the diseases burden in high-income countries. Despite current treatments, patients often experience persistent symptoms that significantly affect their quality of life. Dietary polysaccharides have garnered attention for their potential as interventions for CNS disorders due to their diverse mechanisms of action, including antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective effects. Through an analysis of research articles published between January 5, 2013 and August 30, 2023, encompassing the intervention effects of dietary polysaccharides on Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, depression, anxiety disorders, autism spectrum disorder, epilepsy, and stroke, we have conducted a comprehensive review with the aim of elucidating the role and mechanisms of dietary polysaccharides in various CNS diseases, spanning neurodegenerative, psychiatric, neurodevelopmental disorders, and neurological dysfunctions. At least four categories of mechanistic bases are included in the dietary polysaccharides' intervention against CNS disease, which involves oxidative stress reduction, neuronal production, metabolic regulation, and gut barrier integrity. Notably, the ability of dietary polysaccharides to resist oxidation and modulate gut microbiota not only helps to curb the development of these diseases at an early stage, but also holds promise for the development of novel therapeutic agents for CNS diseases. In conclusion, this comprehensive review strives to advance therapeutic strategies for CNS disorders by elucidating the potential of dietary polysaccharides and advocating interdisciplinary collaboration to propel further research in this realm.


37714224|t|Efficacy and mechanism study of Baichanting compound, a combination of Acanthopanax senticosus (Rupr. and Maxim.) Harms, Paeonia lactiflora Pall and Uncaria rhynchophylla (Miq.) Miq. ex Havil, on Parkinson's disease based on metagenomics and metabolomics.
37714224|w|Yi Lu; Xin Gao; Shadi A D Mohammed; Tianyu Wang; Jiaqi Fu; Yu Wang; Yang Nan; Fang Lu; Shumin Liu
37714224|j|Journal of ethnopharmacology
37714224|y|2024
37714224|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a rapidly progressing neurological disorder. Currently, Medication for PD has numerous limitations. Baichanting Compound (BCT) is a Chinese herbal prescription, a Combination of Acanthopanax senticosus (Rupr. and Maxim.) Harms, Paeonia lactiflora Pall and Uncaria rhynchophylla (Miq.) Miq. ex Havil, that was developed to treat PD and holds a national patent (ZL, 201110260536.3). To clarify the therapeutic effect of BCT on PD and explore its possible mechanism based on metabolomics and metagenomics. C57BL/6 mice were used as a control group, and α-syn transgenic C57BL/6 mice were randomly assigned to the PD (without treatment) or BCT (with BCT treatment) group. UPLC-MS was performed to detect dopamine levels in brain tissue, while ELISA was used to determine inflammatory factors such as IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, IFN-γ and NO, and oxidative stress indicators such as malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase enzyme activity. Fecal metabolomics was used to detect fecal metabolic profiles, screen differential metabolic markers, and predict metabolic pathways by KEGG enrichment analysis. Metagenomics was used to determine the intestinal microbial composition, and KO enrichment analysis was performed to predict the potential function of different gut microbiota. Finally, Spearman correlation analysis was used to find the possible relationships among intestinal flora, metabolic markers, inflammatory factors, oxidative stress and dopamine levels. BCT increased the superoxide dismutase activity of α-Syn transgenic C57BL/6 mice (P < 0.01), decreased the levels of TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-1β, IL-6, NO and malondialdehyde (P < 0.01, 0.05), and increased the release of dopamine (P < 0.01). Metabolomics results show that BCT could regulate Acetatifactor, Marvinbryantia, Faecalitalea, Anaeromassilibacillus, Anaerobium, Pseudobutyrivibrio and Lachnotalea and Acetatifactor_muris, Marvinbryantia_formatexigens, Lachnotalea_sp_AF33_28, Faecalitalea_sp_Marseille_P3755 and Anaerobium_acetethylicum, Gemmiger_sp_An120 abundance to restore intestinal flora function, and reverse fecal metabolism trend, restoring the content of α-D-glucose, cytidine, L-glutamate, L-glutamine, N-acetyl-L-glutamate, raffinose and uracil. In addition, it regulates arginine biosynthesis, D-glutamine and D-glutamate, pyrimidine, galactose and alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolic pathways. BCT may regulate the composition of the gut microbiota to reverse fecal metabolism in PD mice to protect the substantia nigra and striatum from oxidative stress and inflammatory factors and ultimately play an anti-PD role.


37416776|t|Cracking Brain Diseases from Gut Microbes-Mediated Metabolites for Precise Treatment.
37416776|w|Ying Gong; Anmei Chen; Guohui Zhang; Qing Shen; Liang Zou; Jiahong Li; Yang-Bao Miao; Weixin Liu
37416776|j|International journal of biological sciences
37416776|y|2023
37416776|a|The gut-brain axis has been a subject of significant interest in recent years. Understanding the link between the gut and brain axis is crucial for the treatment of disorders. Here, the intricate components and unique relationship between gut microbiota-derived metabolites and the brain are explained in detail. Additionally, the association between gut microbiota-derived metabolites and the integrity of the blood-brain barrier and brain health is emphasized. Meanwhile, gut microbiota-derived metabolites with their recent applications, challenges and opportunities their pathways on different disease treatment are focus discussed. The prospective strategy of gut microbiota-derived metabolites potential applies to the brain disease treatments, such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease, is proposed. This review provides a broad perspective on gut microbiota-derived metabolites characteristics facilitate understand the connection between gut and brain and pave the way for the development of a new medication delivery system for gut microbiota-derived metabolites.


37436588|t|The critical role of gut-brain axis microbiome in mental disorders.
37436588|w|Kimia Basiji; Azadeh Aghamohammadi Sendani; Shaghayegh Baradaran Ghavami; Maryam Farmani; Nesa Kazemifard; Amir Sadeghi; Ensieh Lotfali; Hamid Asadzadeh Aghdaei
37436588|j|Metabolic brain disease
37436588|y|2023
37436588|a|The Gut-brain axis is a bidirectional neural and humoral signaling that plays an important role in mental disorders and intestinal health and connects them as well. Over the past decades, the gut microbiota has been explored as an important part of the gastrointestinal tract that plays a crucial role in the regulation of most functions of various human organs. The evidence shows several mediators such as short-chain fatty acids, peptides, and neurotransmitters that are produced by the gut may affect the brain's function directly or indirectly. Thus, dysregulation in this microbiome community can give rise to several diseases such as Parkinson's disease, depression, irritable bowel syndrome, and Alzheimer's disease. So, the interactions between the gut and the brain are significantly considered, and also it provides a prominent subject to investigate the causes of some diseases. In this article, we reviewed and focused on the role of the largest and most repetitive bacterial community and their relevance with some diseases that they have mentioned previously.


37750713|t|Oh my gut! Is the microbial origin of neurodegenerative diseases real?
37750713|w|Alyssa Walker; Daniel M Czyz
37750713|j|Infection and immunity
37750713|y|2023
37750713|a|There is no cure or effective treatment for neurodegenerative protein conformational diseases (PCDs), such as Alzheimer's or Parkinson's diseases, mainly because the etiology of these diseases remains elusive. Recent data suggest that unique changes in the gut microbial composition are associated with these ailments; however, our current understanding of the bacterial role in the pathogenesis of PCDs is hindered by the complexity of the microbial communities associated with specific microbiomes, such as the gut, oral, or vaginal microbiota. The composition of these specific microbiomes is regarded as a unique fingerprint affected by factors such as infections, diet, lifestyle, and antibiotics. All of these factors also affect the severity of neurodegenerative diseases. The majority of studies that reveal microbial contribution are correlational, and various models, including worm, fly, and mouse, are being utilized to decipher the role of individual microbes that may affect disease onset and progression. Recent evidence from across model organisms and humans shows a positive correlation between the presence of gram-negative enteropathogenic bacteria and the pathogenesis of PCDs. While these correlational studies do not provide a mechanistic explanation, they do reveal contributing bacterial species and provide an important basis for further investigation. One of the lurking concerns related to the microbial contribution to PCDs is the increasing prevalence of antibiotic resistance and poor antibiotic stewardship, which ultimately select for proteotoxic bacteria, especially the gram-negative species that are known for intrinsic resistance. In this review, we summarize what is known about individual microbial contribution to PCDs and the potential impact of increasing antimicrobial resistance.


37579888|t|N-acetyl-L-leucine protects MPTP-treated Parkinson's disease mouse models by suppressing Desulfobacterota via the gut-brain axis.
37579888|w|Zhifeng Xu; Changlin Lian; Lixin Pan; Wenjie Lai; Fen Zhang; Lingmei Peng; Sijie Zhou; Guanghua Zhao; Xuezhu Yang; Guohua Zhang; Zefeng Tan; Yukai Wang
37579888|j|Brain research bulletin
37579888|y|2023
37579888|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, and communication between the gut and brain (the gut-brain axis) has been found to be essential in behavior and cognitive function. However, the exact mechanisms underlying microbiota dysbiosis in PD progression have not yet been elucidated. Our study aimed to investigate the correlation between gut microbiota disturbances and feces metabolic disorders in PD. We used 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to induce PD models and observed mice's motor symptoms, dopaminergic (DA) neuron death, and gastrointestinal dysfunction. To identify alterations in microbiota and metabolome, feces were collected from mice and analyzed using 16 S ribosomal RNA sequencing feces metabolomics. Pearson analysis was utilized to investigate correlations between the abundances of gut microbiota components and the levels of gut microbiota metabolites, displaying their interaction networks. Our findings revealed a significant increase in Desulfobacterota in the PD mouse model and 151 differentially expressed fecal metabolites between PD and vehicle mice. Moreover, Pearson correlation analysis suggested that the protective factor N-acetyl-L-leucine (NALL) may be associated with neuroinflammation in the striatum and substantia nigra, which also had a negative relationship with the concentration of Desulfobacterota. Additionally, we found that oral administration of NALL alleviated MPTP-induced Motor Impairments and DA neuronal deﬁcits. All in all, we concluded that the decrease of NALL might lead to a significant increase of Desulfobacterota in the MPTP model mouse and subsequently result in the damage of DA neurons via the gut-brain aix pathway.


36983960|t|Infectious Microorganisms Seen as Etiologic Agents in Parkinson's Disease.
36983960|w|Stuparu Alina Zorina; Sanda Jurja; Mihaela Mehedinti; Ana-Maria Stoica; Dana Simona Chita; Stuparu Alexandru Floris; Any Axelerad
36983960|j|Life (Basel, Switzerland)
36983960|y|2023
36983960|a|Infections represent a possible risk factor for parkinsonism and Parkinson's disease (PD) based on information from epidemiology and fundamental science. The risk is unclear for the majority of agents. Moreover, the latency between infection and PD seems to be very varied and often lengthy. In this review, the evidence supporting the potential involvement of infectious microorganisms in the development of Parkinson's disease is examined. Consequently, it is crucial to determine the cause and give additional treatment accordingly. Infection is an intriguing suggestion regarding the cause of Parkinson's disease. These findings demonstrate that persistent infection with viral and bacterial microorganisms might be a cause of Parkinson's disease. As an initiating factor, infection may generate a spectrum of gut microbiota dysbiosis, engagement of glial tissues, neuroinflammation, and alpha-synuclein accumulation, all of which may trigger and worsen the onset in Parkinson's disease also contribute to its progression. Still uncertain is the primary etiology of PD with infection. The possible pathophysiology of PD infection remains a matter of debate. Furthermore, additional study is required to determine if PD patients develop the disease due to infectious microorganisms or solely since they are more sensitive to infectious causes.


37321369|t|Casein Reactivates Dopaminergic Nerve Injury and Intestinal Inflammation with Disturbing Intestinal Microflora and Fecal Metabolites in a Convalescent Parkinson's Disease Mouse Model.
37321369|w|Zhengjia Pu; Shuya Liu; Zeming Guo; Xuemei Zhang; Jie Yan; Yong Tang; Hong Xiao; Jieying Gao; Yingli Li; Qunhua Bai
37321369|j|Neuroscience
37321369|y|2023
37321369|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is the fastest-growing neurodegenerative disease, with pathogenic causes elusive and short of effective treatment options. Investigations have found that dairy products positively correlate with the onset of PD, but the mechanisms remain unexplored. As casein is an antigenic component in dairy products, this study assessed if casein could exacerbate PD-related symptoms by stimulating intestinal inflammation and unbalanced intestinal flora and be a risk factor for PD. Using a convalescent PD mouse model induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), the results showed casein reduced motor coordination, caused gastrointestinal dysfunction, reduced dopamine content, and induced intestinal inflammation. Meanwhile, casein disturbed gut microbiota homeostasis by increasing the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio, decreasing α-diversity, and caused abnormal alterations in fecal metabolites. However, these adverse effects of casein attenuated much when it had hydrolyzed by acid or when antibiotics inhibited the intestinal microbiota of the mice. Therefore, our results suggested that casein could reactivate dopaminergic nerve injury and intestinal inflammation and exacerbate intestinal flora disorder and its metabolites in convalescent PD mice. These damaging effects might be related to disordered protein digestion and gut microbiota in these mice. These findings will provide new insights into the impact of milk/dairy products on PD progression and supply information on dietary options for PD patients.


37932328|t|A novel pathway of levodopa metabolism by commensal Bifidobacteria.
37932328|w|M S Cirstea; A Creus-Cuadros; C Lo; A C Yu; A Serapio-Palacios; S Neilson; S Appel-Cresswell; B B Finlay
37932328|j|Scientific reports
37932328|y|2023
37932328|a|The gold-standard treatment for Parkinson's disease is levodopa (L-DOPA), which is taken orally and absorbed intestinally. L-DOPA must reach the brain intact to exert its clinical effect; peripheral metabolism by host and microbial enzymes is a clinical management issue. The gut microbiota is altered in PD, with one consistent and unexplained observation being an increase in Bifidobacterium abundance among patients. Recently, certain Bifidobacterium species were shown to have the ability to metabolize L-tyrosine, an L-DOPA structural analog. Using both clinical cohort data and in vitro experimentation, we investigated the potential for commensal Bifidobacteria to metabolize this drug. In PD patients, Bifidobacterium abundance was positively correlated with L-DOPA dose and negatively with serum tyrosine concentration. In vitro experiments revealed that certain species, including B. bifidum, B. breve, and B. longum, were able to metabolize this drug via deamination followed by reduction to the compound 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl lactic acid (DHPLA) using existing tyrosine-metabolising genes. DHPLA appears to be a waste product generated during regeneration of NAD +. This metabolism occurs at low levels in rich medium, but is significantly upregulated in nutrient-limited minimal medium. Discovery of this novel metabolism of L-DOPA to DHPLA by a common commensal may help inform medication management in PD.


37537902|t|Neurodevelopmental toxicity induced by PM2.5 Exposure and its possible role in Neurodegenerative and mental disorders.
37537902|w|Xin-Qi Liu; Jia Huang; Chao Song; Tian-Liang Zhang; Yong-Ping Liu; Li Yu
37537902|j|Human & experimental toxicology
37537902|y|2023
37537902|a|Recent extensive evidence suggests that ambient fine particulate matter (PM2.5, with an aerodynamic diameter ≤2.5 μm) may be neurotoxic to the brain and cause central nervous system damage, contributing to neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism spectrum disorders, neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, and mental disorders, such as schizophrenia, depression, and bipolar disorder. PM2.5 can enter the brain via various pathways, including the blood-brain barrier, olfactory system, and gut-brain axis, leading to adverse effects on the CNS. Studies in humans and animals have revealed that PM2.5-mediated mechanisms, including neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, systemic inflammation, and gut flora dysbiosis, play a crucial role in CNS damage. Additionally, PM2.5 exposure can induce epigenetic alterations, such as hypomethylation of DNA, which may contribute to the pathogenesis of some CNS damage. Through literature analysis, we suggest that promising therapeutic targets for alleviating PM2.5-induced neurological damage include inhibiting microglia overactivation, regulating gut microbiota with antibiotics, and targeting signaling pathways, such as PKA/CREB/BDNF and WNT/β-catenin. Additionally, several studies have observed an association between PM2.5 exposure and epigenetic changes in neuropsychiatric disorders. This review summarizes and discusses the association between PM2.5 exposure and CNS damage, including the possible mechanisms by which PM2.5 causes neurotoxicity.


36662412|t|Neuroprotective and Immunomodulatory Effects of Probiotics in a Rat Model of Parkinson's Disease.
36662412|w|Irving Parra; Isabel Martínez; Lizbeth Vásquez-Celaya; Jose L Gongora-Alfaro; Yousef Tizabi; Liliana Mendieta
36662412|j|Neurotoxicity research
36662412|y|2023
36662412|a|It is now well recognized that a bidirectional relationship between gut microbiota and the brain, referred to as the gut-brain axis, plays a prominent role in maintaining homeostasis and that a disruption in this axis can result in neuroinflammatory response and neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD). The protective action of probiotics such as Bifidobacterium animalis ssp. lactis Bb12 and Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG in various animal models of PD has been reported. Therefore, in this study, we used an inflammatory model of PD to assess the effects of a combination of these two probiotics (Microbiot<sup>®</sup>) on motor behavior as well as on the response of microglia, including microglia morphology, to gain a better understanding of their mechanism of action. Microbiot<sup>®</sup> (300 µL) was administered orally once daily for 15 days in a lipopolysaccharide-induced PD model using male Wistar rats. Although LPS-induced motor asymmetry in cylinder test was not affected by Microbiot<sup>®</sup>, impairment of motor coordination in the narrow-beam test was significantly reduced by this probiotic. Moreover, Microbiot<sup>®</sup> treatment reduced microglial activation suggesting an anti-inflammatory effect. While further mechanistic investigation of Microbiot<sup>®</sup> in neurodegenerative diseases is warranted, our results support the potential utility of probiotics in PD.


36880679|t|The microbiome-gut-brain axis in epilepsy: pharmacotherapeutic target from bench evidence for potential bedside applications.
36880679|w|Snehashis Kundu; Sudipta Nayak; Debarati Rakshit; Tanveer Singh; Rahul Shukla; Dharmendra Kumar Khatri; Awanish Mishra
36880679|j|European journal of neurology
36880679|y|2023
36880679|a|The gut-brain axis augments the bidirectional communication between the gut and brain and modulates gut homeostasis and the central nervous system through the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, enteroendocrine system, neuroendocrine system, inflammatory and immune pathways. Preclinical and clinical reports showed that gut dysbiosis might play a major regulatory role in neurological diseases such as epilepsy, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, and Alzheimer's disease. Epilepsy is a chronic neurological disease that causes recurrent and unprovoked seizures, and numerous risk factors are implicated in developing epilepsy. Advanced consideration of the gut-microbiota-brain axis can reduce ambiguity about epilepsy pathology, antiepileptic drugs, and effective therapeutic targets. Gut microbiota sequencing analysis reported that the level of Proteobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, Fusobacteria, and Firmicutes was increased and the level of Actinobacteria and Bacteroidetes was decreased in epilepsy patients. Clinical and preclinical studies also indicated that probiotics, ketogenic diet, faecal microbiota transplantation, and antibiotics can improve gut dysbiosis and alleviate seizure by enhancing the abundance of healthy biota. This study aims to give an overview of the connection between gut microbiota, and epilepsy, how gut microbiome changes may cause epilepsy, and whether gut microbiome restoration could be used as a treatment for epilepsy.


37703887|t|An Overview of Gastrointestinal Dysfunction in Parkinsonian Syndromes.
37703887|w|Lauren Talman; Delaram Safarpour
37703887|j|Seminars in neurology
37703887|y|2023
37703887|a|Gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction is a common nonmotor symptom in Parkinson's disease (PD) as well as other parkinsonian syndromes and may precede the onset of motor symptoms by decades. Involvement of all segments of the GI tract can lead to altered responses to medications and worsened quality of life for patients. While some GI symptoms occur in isolation, others overlap. Therefore, understanding the changes in different segments of the GI tract and how they relate to altered responses to PD treatment can guide both diagnostic and pharmacological interventions. Gut microbiota plays a critical role in immune activity and modulation of the enteric and central nervous systems. Understanding this bidirectional relationship helps to elucidate the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration. This review will describe the current understanding of how GI dysfunction develops in parkinsonian syndromes, common symptoms in PD and related disorders, and available treatments.


38008403|t|Calprotectin in Parkinsonian disease: Anticipation and dedication.
38008403|w|Hayder M Al-Kuraishy; Ali I Al-Gareeb; Ayah Talal Zaidalkiani; Athanasios Alexiou; Marios Papadakis; Mostafa M Bahaa; Ammar Al-Faraga; Gaber El-Saber Batiha
38008403|j|Ageing research reviews
38008403|y|2024
38008403|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease due to degeneration of dopaminergic neurons (DNs) in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). PD is characterized by motor and non-motor symptoms. Non-motor symptoms such as constipation and dysfunction of gastrointestinal tract (GIT) motility together with medications used in the management of PD affect gut microbiota. Alterations of gut microbiota with development of gut dyspiosis can induce momentous changes in gut barrier with subsequent systemic inflammation and induction of neuroinflammation. It has been shown that calprotectin which reflect intestinal inflammation and gut barrier injury are augmented in PD. Therefore, this review aims to elucidate the possible role of gut barrier injury and associated dysbiois in PD neuropathology, and how calprotectin reflects gut barrier injury in PD. Benefit of this review was to elucidate that high fecal calprotectin level in PD patients indicated gut dysbiosis and intestinal inflammation. Early increment of fecal calprotectin indicates the development of gut dysbiosis and/or gut-barrier injury which may precede motor symptoms by decades. Thus, fecal calprotectin could be a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker in PD. preclinical and clinical studies are warranted in this regard to emphasize the potential role of fecal calprotectin in PD neuropathology.


37206220|t|Neuroprotective effect of engineered <i>Clostridium</i>butyricum-pMTL007-GLP-1 on Parkinson's disease mice models via promoting mitophagy.
37206220|w|Yun Wang; Wen-Jie Chen; Yi-Yang Han; Xuan Xu; Ai-Xia Yang; Jing Wei; Dao-Jun Hong; Xin Fang; Ting-Tao Chen
37206220|j|Bioengineering & translational medicine
37206220|y|2023
37206220|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease with limited treatment and no cure, hence, broadening PD drug spectrum is of great significance. At present, engineered microorganisms are attracting increasing attention. In this study, we constructed an engineered strain of <i>Clostridium butyricum</i>-GLP-1, a <i>C. butyricum</i> (a probiotic) that consistently expresses glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1, a peptide-based hormone with neurological advantage) in anticipation of its use in PD treatment. We further investigated the neuroprotective mechanism of <i>C. butyricum</i>-GLP-1 on PD mice models induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. The results indicated that <i>C. butyricum</i>-GLP-1 could improve motor dysfunction and ameliorate neuropathological changes by increasing TH expression and reducing the expression of α-syn. Moreover, we confirmed that <i>C. butyricum</i>-GLP-1 improved microbiome imbalance of PD mice by decreasing the relative abundance of <i>Bifidobacterium</i> at the genus level, improved gut integrity, and upregulated the levels of GPR41/43. Surprisingly, we found it could exert its neuroprotective effects via promoting PINK1/Parkin mediated mitophagy and attenuating oxidative stress. Together, our work showed that <i>C. butyricum</i>-GLP-1 improves PD by promoting mitophagy, which provides an alternative therapeutic modality for PD.


37630602|t|Could the Urease of the Gut Bacterium <i>Proteus mirabilis</i> Play a Role in the Altered Gut-Brain Talk Associated with Parkinson's Disease?
37630602|w|Matheus V C Grahl; Brenda da Silva Andrade; Ana Paula A Perin; Gilda A Neves; Laura de Souza Duarte; Augusto Frantz Uberti; Kelvin Siqueira Hohl; Cristian Follmer; Celia Regina Carlini
37630602|j|Microorganisms
37630602|y|2023
37630602|a|Intestinal dysbiosis seems to play a role in neurodegenerative pathologies. Parkinson's disease (PD) patients have an altered gut microbiota. Moreover, mice treated orally with the gut microbe <i>Proteus mirabilis</i> developed Parkinson's-like symptoms. Here, the possible involvement of <i>P. mirabilis</i> urease (PMU) and its B subunit (PmUreβ) in the pathogenesis of PD was assessed. Purified proteins were given to mice intraperitoneally (20 μg/animal/day) for one week. Behavioral tests were conducted, and brain homogenates of the treated animals were subjected to immunoassays. After treatment with PMU, the levels of TNF-α and IL-1β were measured in Caco2 cells and cellular permeability was assayed in Hek 293. The proteins were incubated in vitro with α-synuclein and examined via transmission electron microscopy. Our results showed that PMU treatment induced depressive-like behavior in mice. No motor deficits were observed. The brain homogenates had an increased content of caspase-9, while the levels of α-synuclein and tyrosine hydroxylase decreased. PMU increased the pro-inflammatory cytokines and altered the cellular permeability in cultured cells. The urease, but not the PmUreβ, altered the morphology of α-synuclein aggregates in vitro, forming fragmented aggregates. We concluded that PMU promotes pro-inflammatory effects in cultured cells. In vivo, PMU induces neuroinflammation and a depressive-like phenotype compatible with the first stages of PD development.


37374030|t|A Critical Perspective on the Supplementation of <i>Akkermansia muciniphila</i>: Benefits and Harms.
37374030|w|Vito Chiantera; Antonio Simone Laganà; Sabrina Basciani; Maurizio Nordio; Mariano Bizzarri
37374030|j|Life (Basel, Switzerland)
37374030|y|2023
37374030|a|<i>Akkermansia muciniphila</i> is a mucin-degrading bacterium of the intestinal niche, exerting beneficial effects on the host metabolic profile. Accumulating evidence indicated <i>Akkermansia</i> as a promising therapeutic probiotic against metabolic disorders such as obesity, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. However, in specific intestinal microenvironments, its excessive enrichment may be not beneficial. Conditions like inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), <i>Salmonella typhimurium</i> infection or post-antibiotic reconstitution may not benefit from <i>Akkermansia</i> supplementation. Furthermore, using <i>Akkermansia</i> in patients with endocrine and gynecological disorders-such as polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) or endometriosis-that have a higher risk of developing IBD, should be critically evaluated. In addition, a cautionary note comes from the neurological field, as the gut microbiota of patients suffering from Parkinson's disease or multiple sclerosis exhibits a characteristic signature of <i>Akkermansia municiphila</i> abundance. Overall, considering these controversial points, the use of <i>Akkermansia</i> should be evaluated on an individual basis, avoiding risking unexpected effects.


37827233|t|TLR2 deficiency is beneficial at the late phase in MPTP-induced Parkinson' disease mice.
37827233|w|Yongtao He; Jiayin Zhao; Hongtian Dong; Xiaoshuang Zhang; Yufei Duan; Yuanyuan Ma; Mei Yu; Jian Fei; Fang Huang
37827233|j|Life sciences
37827233|y|2023
37827233|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. The etiology of PD is still elusive but neuroinflammation is proved to be an important contributor. Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) involves in the release of several inflammatory cytokines. Whether TLR2 serves as a mediator contributing to the damage of DA system in PD remain unclear. Tlr2 knockout (Tlr2<sup>-/-</sup>) and wild-type (WT) mice were treated with a subacute regimen of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). At 3, 7 and 14 days after MPTP injection, the behavioral performance, including the Pole test, the Rotarod test, the Rearing test and the Wire hang test was evaluated. Moreover, the PD-like phenotypes, including dopaminergic degeneration, the activation of glial cells and the α-Syn expression were systematically analyzed in the nigrostriatal pathway. Finally, the composition of gut microbiota in the MPTP-treated groups were assessed. TLR2 deficiency had no obvious impact on the dopaminergic injury at 3 and 7 days following MPTP administration. On the contrary, at 14 days post injection, TLR2 deficiency not only significantly attenuated motor deficits in the Pole test and the Rotarod test, and the nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration, but also mitigated α-Syn abnormality, astrocyte activation and neuroinflammation through the suppressed TLR2/MyD88/TRAF6/NF-κB signaling pathways. Additionally, the alteration of gut microbiota was also detected in the mutant mice. These findings highlight the neuroprotective effect of TLR2-pathways at the late phase in the MPTP-induced PD mouse model.


36694359|t|Elevated serum anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibody accompanied by gut mycobiota dysbiosis as a biomarker of diagnosis in patients with de novo Parkinson disease.
36694359|w|Ying Chen; Li-Ying Zhang; Yi Fang; Chuan Li; Dan-Dan Xia; Gong Zhang; Yi Wen; Song-Zhao Zhang; Liu Hu; Lu-Yan Gu; Yi Liu; Jun Tian; Ya-Ping Yan; Xin-Zhen Yin; Zhi-Hua Tao; Bao-Rong Zhang; Jia-Li Pu
36694359|j|European journal of neurology
36694359|y|2023
36694359|a|Intestinal inflammation and gut microbiota dysbiosis contribute to Parkinson disease (PD) pathogenesis, and growing evidence suggests associations between inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) and PD. Considered as markers of chronic gastrointestinal inflammation, elevated serum anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibody (ASCA) levels, against certain gut fungal components, are related to IBD, but their effect on PD is yet to be investigated. Serum ASCA IgG and IgA levels were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and the gut mycobiota communities were investigated using ITS2 sequencing and analyzed using the Qiime pipeline. The study included 393 subjects (148 healthy controls [HCs], 140 with PD, and 105 with essential tremor [ET]). Both serum ASCA IgG and IgA levels were significantly higher in the PD group than in the ET and HC groups. Combining serum ASCA levels and the occurrence of constipation could discriminate patients with PD from controls (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.81, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.76-0.86) and from patients with ET (AUC = 0.85, 95% CI = 0.79-0.89). Furthermore, the composition of the gut fungal community differed between the PD and HC groups. The relative abundances of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Aspergillus, Candida solani, Aspergillus flavus, ASV601_Fungi, ASV866_Fungi, and ASV755_Fungi were significantly higher in the PD group, and enriched Malassezia restricta was found in the HC group. Our study identified elevated serum ASCA levels and enriched gut Saccharomyces cerevisiae in de novo PD.


37239262|t|Trimethylamine N-Oxide Exacerbates Neuroinflammation and Motor Dysfunction in an Acute MPTP Mice Model of Parkinson's Disease.
37239262|w|Wei Quan; Chen-Meng Qiao; Gu-Yu Niu; Jian Wu; Li-Ping Zhao; Chun Cui; Wei-Jiang Zhao; Yan-Qin Shen
37239262|j|Brain sciences
37239262|y|2023
37239262|a|Observational studies have shown abnormal changes in trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) levels in the peripheral circulatory system of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. TMAO is a gut microbiota metabolite that can cross the blood-brain barrier and is strongly related to neuroinflammation. Neuroinflammation is one of the pathological drivers of PD. Herein, we investigated the effect of TMAO on 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD model mice. TMAO pretreatment was given by adding 1.5% (<i>w</i>/<i>v</i>) TMAO to the drinking water of the mice for 21 days; then, the mice were administered MPTP (20 mg/kg, i.p.) four times a day to construct an acute PD model. Their serum TMAO concentrations, motor function, dopaminergic network integrity, and neuroinflammation were then assayed. The results showed that TMAO partly aggravated the motor dysfunction of the PD mice. Although TMAO had no effect on the dopaminergic neurons, TH protein content, and striatal DA level in the PD mice, it significantly reduced the striatal 5-HT levels and aggravated the metabolism of DA and 5-HT. Meanwhile, TMAO significantly activated glial cells in the striatum and the hippocampi of the PD mice and promoted the release of inflammatory cytokines in the hippocampus. In summary, higher-circulating TMAO had adverse effects on the motor capacity, striatum neurotransmitters, and striatal and hippocampal neuroinflammation in PD mice.


37090671|t|The commensal protist <i>Tritrichomonas musculus</i> exhibits a dynamic life cycle that induces extensive remodeling of the gut microbiota.
37090671|w|Ana Popovic; Eric Yixiao Cao; Joanna Han; Nirvana Nursimulu; Eliza V C Alves-Ferreira; Kyle Burrows; Andrea Kennard; Noor Alsmadi; Michael E Grigg; Arthur Mortha; John Parkinson
37090671|j|bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology
37090671|y|2023
37090671|a|Commensal protists and gut bacterial communities exhibit complex relationships, mediated at least in part through host immunity. To improve our understanding of this tripartite interplay, we investigated community and functional dynamics between the murine protist <i>Tritrichomonas musculus</i> ( <i>T. mu</i> ) and intestinal bacteria in healthy and B cell-deficient mice. We identified dramatic, protist-driven remodeling of resident microbiome growth and activities, in parallel with <i>T. mu</i> functional changes, accelerated in the absence of B cells. Metatranscriptomic data revealed nutrient-based competition between bacteria and the protist. Single cell transcriptomics identified distinct <i>T. mu</i> life stages, providing new evidence for trichomonad sexual replication and the formation of pseudocysts. Unique cell states were validated <i>in situ</i> through microscopy and flow cytometry. Our results reveal complex microbial dynamics during the establishment of a commensal protist in the gut, and provide valuable datasets to drive future mechanistic studies.


37224894|t|Antiparkinsonian effects of polyphenols: A narrative review with a focus on the modulation of the gut-brain axis.
37224894|w|Wei Zhang; Xiaoyu Dong; Rui Huang
37224894|j|Pharmacological research
37224894|y|2023
37224894|a|Polyphenols, which are naturally occurring bioactive compounds in fruits and vegetables, are emerging as potential therapeutics for neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Polyphenols have diverse biological activities, such as anti-oxidative, anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic, and α-synuclein aggregation inhibitory effects, which could ameliorate PD pathogenesis. Studies have shown that polyphenols are capable of regulating the gut microbiota (GM) and its metabolites; in turn, polyphenols are extensively metabolized by the GM, resulting in the generation of bioactive secondary metabolites. These metabolites may regulate various physiological processes, including inflammatory responses, energy metabolism, intercellular communication, and host immunity. With increasing recognition of the importance of the microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA) in PD etiology, polyphenols have attracted growing attention as MGBA regulators. In order to address the potential therapeutic role of polyphenolic compounds in PD, we focused on MGBA.


37158925|t|The PROB-PD trial: a pilot, randomised, placebo-controlled study protocol to evaluate the feasibility and potential efficacy of probiotics in modulating peripheral immunity in subjects with Parkinson's disease.
37158925|w|Stefano Martini; Franca Marino; Luca Magistrelli; Elena Contaldi; Marco Cosentino; Cristoforo Comi
37158925|j|Pilot and feasibility studies
37158925|y|2023
37158925|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease. No disease-modifying treatment is available, and therapy is symptomatic. The histopathologic hallmark is the loss of dopaminergic neurons and accumulation of α-synuclein (α-syn) in surviving neurons, but the underlying pathophysiology is unclear. Inflammatory mechanisms seem to play a prominent role, with an imbalance of immune functions and neurotoxicity caused by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Involvement of peripheral adaptive immunity, with an imbalance in T cell subpopulations and in the expression of transcriptional factors in CD4+ T cells, has also been reported. Although clinical presentation is defined by motor symptoms, patients also report non-motor symptoms, often before the onset of a clinically established disease. Etiopathogenesis of PD is unknown, but an initial aggregation of α-syn in the gut, with subsequent propagation along the vagus nerve to the brain has been hypothesised. Interestingly, in an α-syn overexpressing murine model, the absence of gut microbiota prevented both microglia activation and motor impairment, thus pointing to a fundamental role of microbiota in the development of PD. Magistrelli et al. showed that in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of PD patients, probiotics modulate the in vitro production of cytokines toward an anti-inflammatory profile and reduce the production of ROS. This is a pilot randomised placebo-controlled clinical trial protocol for a 12-week treatment with probiotics. At least 80 patients affected by PD will be recruited and randomly allocated to either the treatment or placebo group in a 1:1 ratio. General inclusion criteria will be the onset of PD 2 to 5 years before the trial and absence of autoimmune comorbidities or immunomodulating therapy. Our primary endpoint is the assessment of changes in extracellular cytokine levels (Interferon (IFN)-γ, tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-4, and IL-10) and ROS production. Secondary outcomes include changes in lymphocyte subpopulations and transcriptional factors mRNA levels. This study is designed to highlight the potential beneficial role of probiotics administration on peripheral immunity through the modulation of gut microbiota. Explorative outcomes will be evaluated to assess variations in motor and non-motor symptoms and the possible correlation with probiotics administration. ClinicalTrials.gov ID NCT05173701. Registered 08 November 2021.


38045857|t|Metabolomic analysis of serum short-chain fatty acid concentrations in a mouse of MPTP-induced Parkinson's disease after dietary supplementation with branched-chain amino acids.
38045857|w|Na Mi; Lili Ma; Xueying Li; Jia Fu; Xinxin Bu; Fei Liu; Fan Yang; Yali Zhang; Lifen Yao
38045857|j|Open medicine (Warsaw, Poland)
38045857|y|2023
38045857|a|The gut microbiota and microbial metabolites influence the enteric nervous system and the central nervous system via the microbial-gut-brain axis. Increasing body of evidence suggests that disturbances in the metabolism of peripheral branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) can contribute to the development of neurodegenerative diseases through neuroinflammatory signaling. Preliminary research has shown that longitudinal changes in serum amino acid levels in mouse models of Parkinson's disease (PD) are negatively correlated with disease progression. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to determine the changes in serum levels of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) in a mouse model of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD after dietary BCAA supplementation. In our research, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to detect serum SCFA concentrations. The data were then analyzed with principal component analysis and orthogonal partial least squares discriminant analysis. Finally, the correlations of serum SCFA levels with gut and motor function in MPTP-induced PD mice were explored. Propionic acid, acetic acid, butyric acid, and isobutyric acid concentrations were elevated in MPTP + H-BCAA mice compared with MPTP mice. Propionic acid concentration was increased the most, while the isovaleric acid concentration was decreased. Propionic acid concentration was positively correlated with fecal weight and water content and negatively correlated with the pole-climbing duration. In conclusion, these results not only suggest that propionic acid may be a potential biomarker for PD, but also indicate the possibility that PD may be treated by altering circulating levels of SCFA.


36776226|t|A review article on neuroprotective, immunomodulatory, and anti-inflammatory role of vitamin-D3 in elderly COVID-19 patients.
36776226|w|Amit Kumar Tripathi; Sunil Kumar Mishra
36776226|j|The Egyptian journal of neurology, psychiatry and neurosurgery
36776226|y|2023
36776226|a|Vitamin D3 is a secosteroid, broad-spectrum immunomodulatory, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory hormone produced either by the internal subcutaneous pathway in the presence of ultraviolet B (UVB) rays or by the external pathway in the form of supplements. Vitamin D3 deficiency is a common and reversible contributor to mortality and morbidity among critically ill patients, including Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) and other viral infections. The major functions of vitamin D3 are inhibiting the proinflammatory pathways, including nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kB), inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-6 (ILs-6), interleukin-18 (ILs-18), and tumour necrosis factor (TNF), preventing the loss of neural sensation in COVID-19, maintaining respiratory homeostasis, and acting as an antiviral, antimalarial, and antihypertensive agent. Vitamin D3 has an important role in reversing the COVID-19 infection in patients who have previously suffered from a neurological disease, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson disease, motor neuron disease, multiple sclerosis, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, stroke, cardiovascular problems, headache, sleep-associated disorder, and others. Moreover, vitamin D3 plays a key role in regulating the gene expression of different pro-inflammatory cytokines. In addition to the information provided above, the current review article provides the most recent information on Vitamin D against COVID-19 with comorbid neurological disorders. Furthermore, we present the most recent advancement and molecular mechanism of action of vitamin D3. Diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and neurological disorders are comorbid conditions, and vitamin D3 is a critical regulator of COVID-19 infection during these conditions. In the midst of the COVID-19 epidemic, factors such as sex, latitudes, nutrition, demography, pollution, and gut microbiota warrants for additional research on vitamin D supplements.


37596429|t|Fecal Microbiota Transplantation from Aged Mice Render Recipient Mice Resistant to MPTP-Induced Nigrostriatal Degeneration Via a Neurogenesis-Dependent but Inflammation-Independent Manner.
37596429|w|Chen-Meng Qiao; Yu Zhou; Wei Quan; Xiao-Yu Ma; Li-Ping Zhao; Yun Shi; Hui Hong; Jian Wu; Gu-Yu Niu; Yu-Nuo Chen; Shan Zhu; Chun Cui; Wei-Jiang Zhao; Yan-Qin Shen
37596429|j|Neurotherapeutics : the journal of the American Society for Experimental NeuroTherapeutics
37596429|y|2023
37596429|a|Accumulating data support a crucial role of gut microbiota in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, gut microbiota vary with age and, thus, will affect PD in an age-dependent, but unknown manner. We examined the effects of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) pretreatment, using fecal microbiota from young (7 weeks) or aged mice (23 months), on MPTP-induced PD model. Motor function, pathological changes, striatal neurotransmitters, neuroinflammation, gut inflammation and gut permeability were examined. Gut microbiota composition and metabolites, namely short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), were analyzed. Neurogenesis was also evaluated by measuring the number of doublecortin-positive (DCX<sup>+</sup>) neurons and Ki67-positive (Ki67<sup>+</sup>) cells in the hippocampus. Expression of Cd133 mRNA, a cellular stemness marker, in the hippocampus was also examined. Mice who received FMT from young mice showed MPTP-induced motor dysfunction, and reduction of striatal dopamine (DA), dopaminergic neurons and striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) levels. Interestingly and unexpectedly, mice that received FMT from aged mice showed recovery of motor function and rescue of dopaminergic neurons and striatal 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), as well as decreased DA metabolism after MPTP challenge. Further, they showed improved metabolic profiling and a decreased amount of fecal SCFAs. High-throughput sequencing revealed that FMT remarkably reshaped the gut microbiota of recipient mice. For instance, levels of genus Akkermansia and Candidatus Saccharimonas were elevated in fecal samples of recipient mice receiving aged microbiota (AM + MPTP mice) than YM + MPTP mice. Intriguingly, both young microbiota and aged microbiota had no effect on neuroinflammation, gut inflammation or gut permeability. Notably, AM + MPTP mice showed a marked increase in DCX<sup>+</sup> neurons, as well as Ki67<sup>+</sup> cells and Cd133 expression in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) compared to YM + MPTP mice. These results suggest that FMT from aged mice augments neurogenesis, improves motor function and restores dopaminergic neurons and neurotransmitters in PD model mice, possibly through increasing neurogenesis.


37961318|t|Identification of proteotoxic and proteoprotective bacteria that non-specifically affect proteins associated with neurodegenerative diseases.
37961318|w|Alyssa C Walker; Rohan Bhargava; Michael Bucher; Amanda S Brust; Daniel M Czy
37961318|j|bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology
37961318|y|2023
37961318|a|Neurodegenerative protein conformational diseases (PCDs), such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's, are a leading cause of death and disability worldwide and have no known cures or effective treatments. Emerging evidence suggests a role for the gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative PCDs; however, the influence of specific bacteria on the culprit proteins associated with each of these diseases remains elusive, primarily due to the complexity of the microbiota. In the present study, we employed a single-strain screening approach to identify human bacterial isolates that enhance or suppress the aggregation of culprit proteins and the associated toxicity in <i>Caenorhabditis elegans</i> expressing Aβ<sub>1-42</sub>, α-synuclein, and polyglutamine tracts. Here, we reveal the first comprehensive analysis of the human microbiome for its effect on proteins associated with neurodegenerative diseases. Our results suggest that bacteria affect the aggregation of metastable proteins by modulating host proteostasis rather than selectively targeting specific disease-associated proteins. These results reveal bacteria that potentially influence the pathogenesis of PCDs and open new promising prevention and treatment opportunities by altering the abundance of beneficial and detrimental microbes.


37895965|t|Profiling Analysis of Tryptophan Metabolites in the Urine of Patients with Parkinson's Disease Using LC-MS/MS.
37895965|w|So Hyeon Chung; Dallah Yoo; Tae-Beom Ahn; Wonwoong Lee; Jongki Hong
37895965|j|Pharmaceuticals (Basel, Switzerland)
37895965|y|2023
37895965|a|Although Parkinson's disease (PD) is a representative neurodegenerative disorder and shows characteristic motor impediments, the pathophysiological mechanisms and treatment targets for PD have not yet been clearly identified. Since several tryptophan metabolites produced by gut microbiota could pass the blood-brain barrier and, furthermore, might influence the central nervous system, tryptophan metabolites within the indole, kynurenine, and serotonin metabolic pathways might be the most potent targets for PD development. Furthermore, most metabolites are circulated via the blood, play roles in and/or are metabolized via the host organs, and finally are excreted into the urine. Therefore, profiling the overall tryptophan metabolic pathways in urine samples of patients with PD is important to understanding the pathological mechanisms, finding biomarkers, and discovering therapeutic targets for PD. However, the development of profiling analysis based on tryptophan metabolism pathways in human urine samples is still challenging due to the wide physiological ranges, the varied signal response, and the structural diversity of tryptophan metabolites in complicated urine matrices. In this study, an LC-MS/MS method was developed to profile 21 tryptophan metabolites within the indole, kynurenine, and serotonin metabolic pathways in human urine samples using ion-pairing chromatography and multiple reaction monitoring determination. The developed method was successfully applied to urine samples of PD patients (<i>n</i> = 41) and controls (<i>n</i> = 20). Further, we investigated aberrant metabolites to find biomarkers for PD development and therapeutic targets based on the quantitative results. Unfortunately, most tryptophan metabolites in the urine samples did not present significant differences between control and PD patients, except for indole-3-acetic acid. Nonetheless, indole-3-acetic acid was reported for the first time for its aberrant urinary levels in PD patients and tentatively selected as a potential biomarker for PD. This study provides accurate quantitative results for 21 tryptophan metabolites in biological samples and will be helpful in revealing the pathological mechanisms of PD development, discovering biomarkers for PD, and further providing therapeutic targets for various PD symptoms. In the near future, to further investigate the relationship between gut microbial metabolites and PD, we will employ studies on microbial metabolites using plasma and stool samples from control and PD patients.


37196855|t|Kanamycin treatment in the pre-symptomatic stage of a Drosophila PD model prevents the onset of non-motor alterations.
37196855|w|D Molina-Mateo; B P Valderrama; R V Zárate; S Hidalgo; J Tamayo-Leiva; A Soto-González; S Guerra-Ayala; V Arriagada-Vera; C Oliva; B Diez; J M Campusano
37196855|j|Neuropharmacology
37196855|y|2023
37196855|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor alterations, which is preceded by a prodromal stage where non-motor symptoms are observed. Over recent years, it has become evident that this disorder involves other organs that communicate with the brain like the gut. Importantly, the microbial community that lives in the gut plays a key role in this communication, the so-called microbiota-gut-brain axis. Alterations in this axis have been associated to several disorders including PD. Here we proposed that the gut microbiota is different in the presymptomatic stage of a Drosophila model for PD, the Pink1<sup>B9</sup> mutant fly, as compared to that observed in control animals. Our results show this is the case: there is basal dysbiosis in mutant animals evidenced by substantial difference in the composition of midgut microbiota in 8-9 days old Pink1<sup>B9</sup> mutant flies as compared with control animals. Further, we fed young adult control and mutant flies kanamycin and analyzed motor and non-motor behavioral parameters in these animals. Data show that kanamycin treatment induces the recovery of some of the non-motor parameters altered in the pre-motor stage of the PD fly model, while there is no substantial change in locomotor parameters recorded at this stage. On the other hand, our results show that feeding young animals the antibiotic, results in a long-lasting improvement of locomotion in control flies. Our data support that manipulations of gut microbiota in young animals could have beneficial effects on PD progression and age-dependent motor impairments. This article is part of the Special Issue on "Microbiome & the Brain: Mechanisms & Maladies".


38106542|t|Sex Differences in the Allele Distribution of <i>PGLYRP2</i> Variant rs892145 in Parkinson's Disease.
38106542|w|Caroline Ran; Karin Wirdefeldt; Olof Sydow; Per Svenningsson; Rochellys Diaz Heijtz
38106542|j|Parkinson's disease
38106542|y|2023
38106542|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex multifactorial disease, involving genetic susceptibility, environmental risk factors, and gene-environmental interactions. The microbiota-gut-brain axis is hypothesized to play a role in the pathophysiology of PD, and peptidoglycan recognition proteins (PGLYRPs), which modulate the gut microbiota, are, therefore, relevant candidate genes for PD. Using quantitative real-time PCR, we genotyped three <i>PGLYRP</i> variants (rs892145, rs959117, and rs10888557) and performed an association analysis in 508 PD patients and 585 control individuals. We further conducted a meta-analysis of rs892145 and analyzed <i>PGLYRP2</i> gene expression in lymphocytes from patients with PD and controls. Although initial analysis of the three variants rs892145, rs959117, and rs10888557 and a meta-analysis of rs892145 did not reveal any association between the selected variants and PD, we found an interaction between sex and genotype for rs892145, with a marked difference in the allele distribution of rs892145 between male and female patients. As compared to controls, the T allele was less common in female patients (odds ratio = 0.76, <i>P</i> = 0.04) and more common in male patients (odds ratio = 1.29, <i>P</i> = 0.04). No difference was found in <i>PGLYRP2</i> gene expression between PD patients and controls (<i>P</i> = 0.38), nor between sexes (<i>P</i> = 0.07). <i>Discussion</i>. Overall, this genetic screening in Swedish PD patients does not support previous results demonstrating associations of <i>PGLYRP</i> variants with the risk of PD. Meta-analysis of rs892145 revealed pronounced heterogeneity between previously published studies which is likely to have influenced the results. Taken together, the genetic and gene expression analyses suggest a possible link between genetic variants in <i>PGLYRP2</i> and sex differences in PD. Because of the limited sample size in our study, these results need to be verified in independent cohorts before concluding.


36918961|t|NEMoE: a nutrition aware regularized mixture of experts model to identify heterogeneous diet-microbiome-host health interactions.
36918961|w|Xiangnan Xu; Michal Lubomski; Andrew J Holmes; Carolyn M Sue; Ryan L Davis; Samuel Muller; Jean Y H Yang
36918961|j|Microbiome
36918961|y|2023
36918961|a|Unrevealing the interplay between diet, the microbiome, and the health state could enable the design of personalized intervention strategies and improve the health and well-being of individuals. A common approach to this is to divide the study population into smaller cohorts based on dietary preferences in the hope of identifying specific microbial signatures. However, classification of patients based solely on diet is unlikely to reflect the microbiome-host health relationship or the taxonomic microbiome makeup. We present a novel approach, the Nutrition-Ecotype Mixture of Experts (NEMoE) model, for establishing associations between gut microbiota and health state that accounts for diet-specific cohort variability using a regularized mixture of experts model framework with an integrated parameter sharing strategy to ensure data-driven diet-cohort identification consistency across taxonomic levels. The success of our approach was demonstrated through a series of simulation studies, in which NEMoE showed robustness with regard to parameter selection and varying degrees of data heterogeneity. Further application to real-world microbiome data from a Parkinson's disease cohort revealed that NEMoE is capable of not only improving predictive performance for Parkinson's Disease but also for identifying diet-specific microbial signatures of disease. In summary, NEMoE can be used to uncover diet-specific relationships between nutritional-ecotype and patient health and to contextualize precision nutrition for different diseases. Video Abstract.


38178103|t|Gut microbiota, circulating cytokines and dementia: a Mendelian randomization study.
38178103|w|Dong Ji; Wen-Zhu Chen; Lei Zhang; Zhi-Hua Zhang; Li-Jian Chen
38178103|j|Journal of neuroinflammation
38178103|y|2024
38178103|a|Some studies have shown that gut microbiota may be associated with dementia. However, the causal effects between gut microbiota and different types of dementia and whether cytokines act as a mediator remain unclear. Gut microbiota, cytokines, and five dementia types, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), dementia with Lewy body (DLB), vascular dementia (VD), and Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) were identified from large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) summary data. We used Mendelian randomization (MR) to investigate the causal relationships between gut microbiota, cytokines, and five types of dementia. Inverse variance weighting (IVW) was used as the main statistical method. In addition, we explored whether cytokines act as a mediating factor in the pathway from gut microbiota to dementia. There were 20 positive and 16 negative causal effects between genetic liability in the gut microbiota and dementia. Also, there were five positive and four negative causal effects between cytokines and dementias. Cytokines did not act as mediating factors. Gut microbiota and cytokines were causally associated with five types of dementia, and cytokines seemed not to be the mediating factors in the pathway from gut microbiota to dementia.


38958636|t|Pesticides and the Gut Microbiota: Implications for Parkinson's Disease.
38958636|w|Nabanita Ghosh; Krishnendu Sinha; Parames C Sil
38958636|j|Chemical research in toxicology
38958636|y|2024
38958636|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) affects more people worldwide than just aging alone can explain. This is likely due to environmental influences, genetic makeup, and changes in daily habits. The disease develops in a complex way, with movement problems caused by Lewy bodies and the loss of dopamine-producing neurons. Some research suggests Lewy bodies might start in the gut, hinting at a connection between these structures and gut health in PD patients. These patients often have different gut bacteria and metabolites. Pesticides are known to increase the risk of PD, with evidence showing they harm more than just dopamine neurons. Long-term exposure to pesticides in food might affect the gut barrier, gut bacteria, and the blood-brain barrier, but the exact link is still unknown. This review looks at how pesticides and gut bacteria separately influence PD development and progression, highlighting the harmful effects of pesticides and changes in gut bacteria. We have examined the interaction between pesticides and gut bacteria in PD patients, summarizing how pesticides cause imbalances in gut bacteria, the resulting changes, and their overall effects on the PD prognosis.


39064625|t|Mediterranean Diet Adherence, Gut Microbiota and Parkinson's Disease: A Systematic Review.
39064625|w|Bibi Aliya Seelarbokus; Elisa Menozzi; Anthony H V Schapira; Anastasia Z Kalea; Jane Macnaughtan
39064625|j|Nutrients
39064625|y|2024
39064625|a|There is mounting evidence to suggest that high adherence to the Mediterranean diet (MedDiet) may reduce the risk of age-related diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD). However, evidence for the role of the MedDiet in the relief of motor and non-motor symptoms in patients with PD remains limited and inconclusive. We provide a systematic review of the effects of the MedDiet on the clinical features of PD using data from randomised controlled trials (RCT) and prospective observational studies. We searched MEDLINE, EMCare, EMBASE, Scopus and PubMed from inception until June 2023. Reference lists and the grey literature were also searched. Human studies with no restriction on language or publication date, examining associations between MedDiet adherence and the symptoms of PD, were included. We employed standard methodological procedures for data extraction and evidence synthesis and used the Quality Criteria Checklist for assessing the studies included. Four studies from three unique cohorts, including two observational studies (n = 1213) and one RCT (n = 70), met the inclusion criteria. Despite the short study duration reported in all included reports, high MedDiet adherence was associated with changes in the gut microbiota (e.g., increased abundance of short-chain fatty acids producers). These outcomes correlated with a significant improvement in several non-motor symptoms including cognitive dysfunction, dyspepsia and constipation. However, there were no significant changes in diarrhoea, gastrointestinal reflux, abdominal pain and motor symptoms. High MedDiet adherence may be associated with significant improvement in global cognition and several gastrointestinal symptoms, possibly associated to changes in gut microbiota composition. Further studies are warranted to clarify potential cause-and-effect relationships and to elucidate MedDiet impact on motor symptoms.


38652236|t|Modulation of Gut Microbiota Through Dietary Intervention in Neuroinflammation and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Diseases.
38652236|w|Şerife Ayten; Saniye Bilici
38652236|j|Current nutrition reports
38652236|y|2024
38652236|a|The gut microbiota plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of neuroinflammation and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. One of the main modulators of the gut microbiota is the diet, which directly influences host homeostasis and biological processes. Some dietary patterns can affect neurodegenerative diseases' progression through gut microbiota composition, gut permeability, and the synthesis and secretion of microbial-derived neurotrophic factors and neurotransmitters. This comprehensive review critically assesses existing studies investigating the impact of dietary interventions on the modulation of the microbiota in relation to neurodegenerative diseases and neuroinflammation. There are limited studies on the effects of specific diets, such as the ketogenic diet, Mediterranean diet, vegetarian diet, and Western diet, on the progression of neuroinflammation and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases through the gut-brain axis. The ketogenic diet displays promising potential in ameliorating the clinical trajectory of mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease. However, conflicting outcomes were observed among various studies, highlighting the need to consider diverse types of ketogenic diets and their respective effects on clinical outcomes and gut microbiota composition. Vegetarian and Mediterranean diets, known for their anti-inflammatory properties, can be effective against Parkinson's disease, which is related to inflammation in the gut environment. On the other hand, the westernization of dietary patterns was associated with reduced gut microbial diversity and metabolites, which ultimately contributed to the development of neuroinflammation and cognitive impairment. Various studies examining the impact of dietary interventions on the gut-brain axis with regard to neuroinflammation and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases are thoroughly reviewed in this article. A strong mechanistic explanation is required to fully understand the complex interactions between various dietary patterns, gut microbiota, and microbial metabolites and the effects these interactions have on cognitive function and the progression of these diseases.


37843219|t|Correlation between the gut microbiome and neurodegenerative diseases: a review of metagenomics evidence.
37843219|w|Xiaoyan Liu; Yi Liu; Junlin Liu; Hantao Zhang; Chaofan Shan; Yinglu Guo; Xun Gong; Mengmeng Cui; Xiubin Li; Min Tang
37843219|j|Neural regeneration research
37843219|y|2024
37843219|a|A growing body of evidence suggests that the gut microbiota contributes to the development of neurodegenerative diseases via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. As a contributing factor, microbiota dysbiosis always occurs in pathological changes of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. High-throughput sequencing technology has helped to reveal that the bidirectional communication between the central nervous system and the enteric nervous system is facilitated by the microbiota's diverse microorganisms, and for both neuroimmune and neuroendocrine systems. Here, we summarize the bioinformatics analysis and wet-biology validation for the gut metagenomics in neurodegenerative diseases, with an emphasis on multi-omics studies and the gut virome. The pathogen-associated signaling biomarkers for identifying brain disorders and potential therapeutic targets are also elucidated. Finally, we discuss the role of diet, prebiotics, probiotics, postbiotics and exercise interventions in remodeling the microbiome and reducing the symptoms of neurodegenerative diseases.


38867886|t|The interplay between gut microbiota and the brain-gut axis in Parkinson's disease treatment.
38867886|w|Xi Jia; Qin Wang; Meilingzi Liu; Jia-Yuan Ding
38867886|j|Frontiers in neurology
38867886|y|2024
38867886|a|This study delves into the pivotal role of the gut microbiota and the brain-gut axis in Parkinson's Disease (PD), a neurodegenerative disorder with significant motor and non-motor implications. It posits that disruptions in gut microbiota-dysbiosis-and alterations in the brain-gut axis contribute to PD's pathogenesis. Our findings highlight the potential of the gastrointestinal system's early involvement in PD, suggested by the precedence of gastrointestinal symptoms before motor symptoms emerge. This observation implies a possible gut-originated disease pathway. The analysis demonstrates that dysbiosis in PD patients leads to increased intestinal permeability and systemic inflammation, which in turn exacerbates neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. Such insights into the interaction between gut microbiota and the brain-gut axis not only elucidate PD's underlying mechanisms but also pave the way for novel therapeutic interventions. We propose targeted treatment strategies, including dietary modifications and fecal microbiota transplantation, aimed at modulating the gut microbiota. These approaches hold promise for augmenting current PD treatment modalities by alleviating both motor and non-motor symptoms, thereby potentially improving patient quality of life. This research underscores the significance of the gut microbiota in the progression and treatment of PD, advocating for an integrated, multidisciplinary approach to develop personalized, efficacious management strategies for PD patients, combining insights from neurology, microbiology, and nutritional science.


38570412|t|The Gut Microbiota in Parkinson Disease: Interactions with Drugs and Potential for Therapeutic Applications.
38570412|w|Elisa Menozzi; Anthony H V Schapira
38570412|j|CNS drugs
38570412|y|2024
38570412|a|The concept of a 'microbiota-gut-brain axis' has recently emerged as an important player in the pathophysiology of Parkinson disease (PD), not least because of the reciprocal interaction between gut bacteria and medications. The gut microbiota can influence levodopa kinetics, and conversely, drugs administered for PD can influence gut microbiota composition. Through a two-step enzymatic pathway, gut microbes can decarboxylate levodopa to dopamine in the small intestine and then dehydroxylate it to m-tyramine, thus reducing availability. Inhibition of bacterial decarboxylation pathways could therefore represent a strategy to increase levodopa absorption. Other bacterial perturbations common in PD, such as small intestinal bacterial overgrowth and Helicobacter pylori infection, can also modulate levodopa metabolism, and eradication therapies may improve levodopa absorption. Interventions targeting the gut microbiota offer a novel opportunity to manage disabling motor complications and dopa-unresponsive symptoms. Mediterranean diet-induced changes in gut microbiota composition might improve a range of non-motor symptoms. Prebiotics can increase levels of short-chain fatty acid-producing bacteria and decrease pro-inflammatory species, with positive effects on clinical symptoms and levodopa kinetics. Different formulations of probiotics showed beneficial outcomes on constipation, with some of them improving dopamine levels; however, the most effective dosage and duration and long-term effects of these treatments remain unknown. Data from faecal microbiota transplantation studies are preliminary, but show encouraging trends towards improvement in both motor and non-motor outcomes.This article summarises the most up-to-date knowledge in pharmacomicrobiomics in PD, and discusses how the manipulation of gut microbiota represents a potential new therapeutic avenue for PD.


38999791|t|Gut-Brain Axis in Focus: Polyphenols, Microbiota, and Their Influence on α-Synuclein in Parkinson's Disease.
38999791|w|Elizabeth Riegelman; Kathy S Xue; Jia-Sheng Wang; Lili Tang
38999791|j|Nutrients
38999791|y|2024
38999791|a|With the recognition of the importance of the gut-brain axis in Parkinson's disease (PD) etiology, there is increased interest in developing therapeutic strategies that target α-synuclein, the hallmark abhorrent protein of PD pathogenesis, which may originate in the gut. Research has demonstrated that inhibiting the aggregation, oligomerization, and fibrillation of α-synuclein are key strategies for disease modification. Polyphenols, which are rich in fruits and vegetables, are drawing attention for their potential role in this context. In this paper, we reviewed how polyphenols influence the composition and functional capabilities of the gut microbiota and how the resulting microbial metabolites of polyphenols may potentially enhance the modulation of α-synuclein aggregation. Understanding the interaction between polyphenols and gut microbiota and identifying which specific microbes may enhance the efficacy of polyphenols is crucial for developing therapeutic strategies and precision nutrition based on the microbiome.


38279293|t|From the Gut to the Brain: The Role of Enteric Glial Cells and Their Involvement in the Pathogenesis of Parkinson's Disease.
38279293|w|Alba Montalbán-Rodríguez; Raquel Abalo; Laura López-Gómez
38279293|j|International journal of molecular sciences
38279293|y|2024
38279293|a|The brain-gut axis has been identified as an important contributor to the physiopathology of Parkinson's disease. In this pathology, inflammation is thought to be driven by the damage caused by aggregation of α-synuclein in the brain. Interestingly, the Braak's theory proposes that α-synuclein misfolding may originate in the gut and spread in a "prion-like" manner through the vagus nerve into the central nervous system. In the enteric nervous system, enteric glial cells are the most abundant cellular component. Several studies have evaluated their role in Parkinson's disease. Using samples obtained from patients, cell cultures, or animal models, the studies with specific antibodies to label enteric glial cells (GFAP, Sox-10, and S100β) seem to indicate that activation and reactive gliosis are associated to the neurodegeneration produced by Parkinson's disease in the enteric nervous system. Of interest, Toll-like receptors, which are expressed on enteric glial cells, participate in the triggering of immune/inflammatory responses, in the maintenance of intestinal barrier integrity and in the configuration of gut microbiota; thus, these receptors might contribute to Parkinson's disease. External factors like stress also seem to be relevant in its pathogenesis. Some authors have studied ways to reverse changes in EGCs with interventions such as administration of Tryptophan-2,3-dioxygenase inhibitors, nutraceuticals, or physical exercise. Some researchers point out that beyond being activated during the disease, enteric glial cells may contribute to the development of synucleinopathies. Thus, it is still necessary to further study these cells and their role in Parkinson's disease.


39403202|t|Trends and hotspots on the relationship between gut microbiota and Parkinson's Disease: a bibliometric analysis.
39403202|w|Xuefeng Li; Xiaogang Hao; Chunhai Chen; Chao Zhai; Ting Pan; Xue Zhou; Yang Liu; Dalong Wu; Xinhua Chen
39403202|j|Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology
39403202|y|2024
39403202|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that significantly impacts patients' quality of life. Recent evidence has highlighted a complex relationship between the gut microbiota (GM) and PD. Understanding this relationship is crucial for potentially targeting GM in PD treatment and expanding therapeutic options. This study aimed to comprehensively analyze the global landscape, trends, and research focus on GM and PD using bibliometric analysis. Utilizing publications from the Web of Science Core Collection (WsSCC), bibliometric tools such as the R package 'Bibliometrix,' VOS viewer, and CiteSpace software were employed to assess parameters like yearly publications, countries/regions, institutions, and authors. Research trends and hotspots were identified through keyword analysis. The results revealed 1,161 articles published between 2013-2023, with China leading in publications (n=352, 30.31% of total), while the United States had a higher influence (H-index=58). The University of California System was the top institution in terms of publications (n=35), with the National Natural Science Foundation of China funding the most projects (n=172). Keshavarzian A and Sampson TR were the authors with the highest publication and co-citation counts, respectively. The <i>International Journal of Molecular Sciences</i> had the most articles published (n=48). Keyword analysis identified parkinson's disease, gut microbiota, short-chain fatty acids, inflammation, and probiotics as main research topics. Biomarkers, ketogenic diet, and NF-κB were recent research hotspots and trends (2021-2023). The current study conducts an objective and comprehensive analysis of these publications, identifying trends and hotspots in the field of research. The findings offer valuable insights to scholars globally and in-vestigate potential therapeutic strategies for Parkinson's Disease.


38587699|t|The Interaction Between Nutraceuticals and Gut Microbiota: a Novel Therapeutic Approach to Prevent and Treatment Parkinson's Disease.
38587699|w|Liyan Yao; Yong Yang; Xiaowei Yang; Mohammad J Rezaei
38587699|j|Molecular neurobiology
38587699|y|2024
38587699|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons, leading to motor and non-motor symptoms. Emerging research has shed light on the role of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis and progression of PD. Nutraceuticals such as curcumin, berberine, phytoestrogens, polyphenols (e.g., resveratrol, EGCG, and fisetin), dietary fibers have been shown to influence gut microbiota composition and function, restoring microbial balance and enhancing the gut-brain axis. The mechanisms underlying these benefits involve microbial metabolite production, restoration of gut barrier integrity, and modulation of neuroinflammatory pathways. Additionally, probiotics and prebiotics have shown potential in promoting gut health, influencing the gut microbiome, and alleviating PD symptoms. They can enhance the gut's antioxidant capacity of the gut, reduce inflammation, and maintain immune homeostasis, contributing to a neuroprotective environment. This paper provides an overview of the current state of knowledge regarding the potential of nutraceuticals and gut microbiota modulation in the prevention and management of Parkinson's disease, emphasizing the need for further research and clinical trials to validate their effectiveness and safety. The findings suggest that a multifaceted approach involving nutraceuticals and gut microbiota may open new avenues for addressing the challenges of PD and improving the quality of life for affected individuals.


38852651|t|Study on the mechanism of gut microbiota in the pathogenetic interaction between depression and Parkinson 's disease.
38852651|w|Peiyun Zhang; Wei Jin; Zhaoshun Lyu; Xinxuan Lyu; Lihong Li
38852651|j|Brain research bulletin
38852651|y|2024
38852651|a|Depression and Parkinson's disease share pathogenetic characteristics, meaning that they can impact each other and exacerbate their respective progression. From a pathogenetic perspective, depression can develop into Parkinson's disease and is a precursor symptom of Parkinson's disease; Parkinson's disease is also often accompanied by depression. From a pharmacological perspective, the use of antidepressants increases the risk of developing Parkinson's disease, and therapeutic medications for Parkinson's disease can exacerbate symptoms of depression. Therefore, identifying how Parkinson's disease and depression impact each other in their development is key to formulating preventive measures and targeted treatment. One commonality in the pathogenesis of depression and Parkinson's disease are alterations in the gut microbiota, with mechanisms interacting in neural, immune inflammatory, and neuroendocrine pathways. This paper reviews the role of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of depression and Parkinson's disease; conducts a study of the relationship between both conditions and medication; and suggests that dysregulated gut microbiota may be a key factor in explaining the relationship between Parkinson's disease and depression. Finally, on the basis of these findings, this article hopes to provide suggestions that new ideas for the prevention and treatment of depression and Parkinson's disease.


38785512|t|The Effect of Gut Microbiota-Targeted Interventions on Neuroinflammation and Motor Function in Parkinson's Disease Animal Models-A Systematic Review.
38785512|w|Paul-Ștefan Panaitescu; Vlad Răzniceanu; Ștefania-Maria Mocrei-Rebrean; Vlad Sever Neculicioiu; Hanna-Maria Dragoș; Carmen Costache; Gabriela Adriana Filip
38785512|j|Current issues in molecular biology
38785512|y|2024
38785512|a|Gut microbiome-targeted interventions such as fecal transplant, prebiotics, probiotics, synbiotics, and antibiotic gut depletion are speculated to be of potential use in delaying the onset and progression of Parkinson's disease by rebalancing the gut microbiome in the context of the gut-brain axis. Our study aims to organize recent findings regarding these interventions in Parkinson's disease animal models to identify how they affect neuroinflammation and motor outcomes. A systematic literature search was applied in PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, and SCOPUS for gut microbiome-targeted non-dietary interventions. Studies that investigated gut-targeted interventions by using in vivo murine PD models to follow dopaminergic cell loss, motor tests, and neuroinflammatory markers as outcomes were considered to be eligible. A total of 1335 studies were identified in the databases, out of which 29 were found to be eligible. A narrative systematization of the resulting data was performed, and the effect direction for the outcomes was represented. Quality assessment using the SYRCLE risk of bias tool was also performed. Out of the 29 eligible studies, we found that a significant majority report that the intervention reduced the dopaminergic cell loss (82.76%, 95% CI [64.23%, 94.15%]) produced by the induction of the disease model. Also, most studies reported a reduction in microglial (87.5%, 95% CI [61.65%, 98.45%]) and astrocytic activation (84,62%, 95% CI [54.55%, 98.08%]) caused by the induction of the disease model. These results were also mirrored in the majority (96.4% 95% CI [81.65%, 99.91%]) of the studies reporting an increase in performance in behavioral motor tests. A significant limitation of the study was that insufficient information was found in the studies to assess specific causes of the risk of bias. These results show that non-dietary gut microbiome-targeted interventions can improve neuroinflammatory and motor outcomes in acute Parkinson's disease animal models. Further studies are needed to clarify if these benefits transfer to the long-term pathogenesis of the disease, which is not yet fully understood. The study had no funding source, and the protocol was registered in the PROSPERO database with the ID number CRD42023461495.


39177611|t|The Associations Among Gut Microbiota, Branched Chain Amino Acids, and Parkinson's Disease: Mendelian Randomization Study.
39177611|w|Zhenzhen Yan; Guohua Zhao
39177611|j|Journal of Parkinson's disease
39177611|y|2024
39177611|a|In experimental and observational studies, the characteristics of gut microbiota have been associated with Parkinson's disease (PD), among which metabolic pathways played an important role. However, the causality remained unclear. Herein, we aimed to determine the potential impact of gut microbiota and gut microbiota-derived metabolites on PD risk using a Mendelian randomization (MR) approach. We included as exposures gut microbial taxa abundance and gut-derived metabolites (branched chain amino acids [BCAAs]), with PD as the outcome. In addition, we explored whether BCAAs act as a mediating factor in the pathway from gut microbiota to PD. We found evidence of a causality of 15 microbial taxa and PD before and after sensitivity analyses, but not after multiple testing correction. There was significant association between BCAAs levels and the risk of PD, especially isoleucine (OR = 0.995, 95% CI 0.992-0.999, p = 0.004, pFDR = 0.012). In addition, the causality of gut microbiota and BCAAs was also explored that the increased g_Coprococcus abundance can result in the decrease in isoleucine level (OR = 1.046; 95% CI, 1.009-1.085; p = 0.016). Our findings indicated suggestive association between gut microbiota and its metabolites and PD. Furthermore, higher BCAAs levels were associated with the decreased PD risk. This study may provide new targets for PD treatment, such as dietary BCAAs supplementation.


39168575|t|Coffee and Parkinson's disease.
39168575|w|Abraham Olufemi Asuku; Maryam Tayo Ayinla; Tobiloba Samuel Olajide; Toheeb O Oyerinde; Joshua Ayodele Yusuf; Adedamola Aminat Bayo-Olugbami; Grace Ayobami Fajemidagba
39168575|j|Progress in brain research
39168575|y|2024
39168575|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disease marked by dopaminergic neuronal loss and misfolded alpha-synuclein (α-syn) accumulation, which results in both motor and cognitive symptoms. Its occurrence grows with age, with a larger prevalence among males. Despite substantial study, effective medicines to reduce or stop the progression of diseases remain elusive. Interest has grown in examining dietary components, such as caffeine present in coffee, for potential medicinal effects. Epidemiological studies imply a lower incidence of PD with coffee drinking, attributable to caffeine's neuroprotective abilities. Beyond caffeine, coffee constituent like chlorogenic acid and cafestol have anti-Parkinsonian benefits. Moreover, coffee use has been related with variations in gut microbiota composition, which may reduce intestinal inflammation and prevent protein misfolding in enteric nerves, perhaps through the microbiota-gut-brain axis. This review gives a summary of the neuroprotective effects of coffee, investigating both its motor and non-motor advantages in individuals with PD as well as in experimental models of PD. We reviewed some bioactive constituents of coffee, their respective interactions with misfolded α-syn accumulation, and its emerging mechanisms associated to the gut microbiome.


38974034|t|Gut-directed therapy in Parkinson's disease.
38974034|w|Laura Benvenuti; Clelia Di Salvo; Gabriele Bellini; Luisa Seguella; Francesco Rettura; Giuseppe Esposito; Luca Antonioli; Roberto Ceravolo; Nunzia Bernardini; Carolina Pellegrini; Matteo Fornai
38974034|j|Frontiers in pharmacology
38974034|y|2024
38974034|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common and slow-progressing neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and non-motor symptoms, including gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunctions. Over the last years, the microbiota-gut-brain (MGB) axis is emerging as a bacterial-neuro-immune ascending pathway that contributes to the progression of PD. Indeed, PD patients are characterized by changes in gut microbiota composition, alterations of intestinal epithelial barrier (IEB) and enteric neurogenic/inflammatory responses that, besides determining intestinal disturbances, contribute to brain pathology. In this context, despite the causal relationship between gut dysbiosis, impaired MGB axis and PD remains to be elucidated, emerging evidence shows that MGB axis modulation can represent a suitable therapeutical strategy for the treatment of PD. This review provides an overview of the available knowledge about the beneficial effects of gut-directed therapies, including dietary interventions, prebiotics, probiotics, synbiotics and fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), in both PD patients and animal models. In this context, particular attention has been devoted to the mechanisms by which the modulation of MGB axis could halt or slow down PD pathology and, most importantly, how these approaches can be included in the clinical practice.


39036341|t|The gut microbiota-brain axis in neurological disorders.
39036341|w|Mingming You; Nan Chen; Yuanyuan Yang; Lingjun Cheng; Hongzhang He; Yanhua Cai; Yating Liu; Haiyue Liu; Guolin Hong
39036341|j|MedComm
39036341|y|2024
39036341|a|Previous studies have shown a bidirectional communication between human gut microbiota and the brain, known as the microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA). The MGBA influences the host's nervous system development, emotional regulation, and cognitive function through neurotransmitters, immune modulation, and metabolic pathways. Factors like diet, lifestyle, genetics, and environment shape the gut microbiota composition together. Most research have explored how gut microbiota regulates host physiology and its potential in preventing and treating neurological disorders. However, the individual heterogeneity of gut microbiota, strains playing a dominant role in neurological diseases, and the interactions of these microbial metabolites with the central/peripheral nervous systems still need exploration. This review summarizes the potential role of gut microbiota in driving neurodevelopmental disorders (autism spectrum disorder and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder), neurodegenerative diseases (Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease), and mood disorders (anxiety and depression) in recent years and discusses the current clinical and preclinical gut microbe-based interventions, including dietary intervention, probiotics, prebiotics, and fecal microbiota transplantation. It also puts forward the current insufficient research on gut microbiota in neurological disorders and provides a framework for further research on neurological disorders.


37307829|t|Relationships Between Rapid Eye Movement Sleep Behavior Disorder and Parkinson's Disease: Indication from Gut Microbiota Alterations.
37307829|w|Pingchen Zhang; Pei Huang; Yuanyuan Li; Juanjuan Du; Ningdi Luo; Yixi He; Jin Liu; Guiying He; Shishuang Cui; Weishan Zhang; Gen Li; Xin Shen; Liu Jun; Shengdi Chen
37307829|j|Aging and disease
37307829|y|2024
37307829|a|Rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (RBD) has a close relationship with Parkinson's disease (PD) and was even regarded as the most reliable hallmark of prodromal PD. RBD might have similar changes in gut dysbiosis to PD, but the relationship between RBD and PD in gut microbial alterations is rarely studied. In this study, we aim to investigate whether there were consistent changes between RBD and PD in gut microbiota, and found some specific biomarkers in RBD that might indicate phenoconversion to PD. Alpha-diversity showed no remarkable difference and beta-diversity showed significant differences based on the unweighted (R = 0.035, P = 0.037) and weighted (R = 0.0045, P = 0.008) UniFrac analysis among idiopathic RBD (iRBD), PD with RBD, PD without RBD and normal controls (NC). Enterotype distribution indicated iRBD, PD with RBD and PD without RBD were Ruminococcus-dominant while NC were Bacteroides-dominant. 7 genera (4 increased: Aerococcus, Eubacterium, Gordonibacter and Stenotrophomonas, 3 decreased: Butyricicoccus, Faecalibacterium and Haemophilus) were consistently changed in iRBD and PD with RBD. Among them, 4 genera (Aerococcus, Eubacterium, Butyricicoccus, Faecalibacterium) remained distinctive in the comparison between PD with RBD and PD without RBD. Through clinical correlation analysis, Butyricicoccus and Faecalibacterium were found negatively correlated with the severity of RBD (RBD-HK). Functional analysis showed iRBD had similarly increased staurosporine biosynthesis to PD with RBD. Our study indicates that RBD had similar gut microbial changes to PD. Decreased Butyricicoccus and Faecalibacterium might be potential hallmarks of phenoconversion of RBD to PD.


39134825|t|Gut Microbiota-Induced Modulation of the Central Nervous System Function in Parkinson's Disease Through the Gut-Brain Axis and Short-Chain Fatty Acids.
39134825|w|Yiting Ni; Qiaowen Tong; Mengying Xu; Jiayi Gu; Hua Ye
39134825|j|Molecular neurobiology
39134825|y|2024
39134825|a|Recent insights into Parkinson's disease (PD), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, suggest a significant influence of the gut microbiome on its pathogenesis and progression through the gut-brain axis. This study integrates 16S rRNA sequencing, high-throughput transcriptomic sequencing, and animal model experiments to explore the molecular mechanisms underpinning the role of gut-brain axis in PD, with a focus on short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) mediated by the SCFA receptors FFAR2 and FFAR3. Our findings highlighted prominent differences in the gut microbiota composition between PD patients and healthy individuals, particularly in taxa such as Escherichia_Shigella and Bacteroidetes, which potentially impact SCFA levels through secondary metabolite biosynthesis. Notably, fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) from healthy to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD mouse models significantly improved motor function, enhanced dopamine and serotonin levels in the striatum, and increased the number of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra while reducing glial cell activation. This therapeutic effect was associated with increased levels of SCFAs such as acetate, propionate, and butyrate in the gut of MPTP-lesioned mice. Moreover, transcriptomic analyses revealed upregulated expression of FFAR2 and FFAR3 in MPTP-lesioned mice, indicating their crucial role in mediating the benefits of FMT on the central nervous system. These results provide compelling evidence that gut microbiota and SCFAs play a critical role in modulating the gut-brain axis, offering new insights into PD's etiology and potential targets for therapeutic intervention.


38989933|t|Gut microbiota-astrocyte axis: new insights into age-related cognitive decline.
38989933|w|Lan Zhang; Jingge Wei; Xilei Liu; Dai Li; Xiaoqi Pang; Fanglian Chen; Hailong Cao; Ping Lei
38989933|j|Neural regeneration research
38989933|y|2025
38989933|a|With the rapidly aging human population, age-related cognitive decline and dementia are becoming increasingly prevalent worldwide. Aging is considered the main risk factor for cognitive decline and acts through alterations in the composition of the gut microbiota, microbial metabolites, and the functions of astrocytes. The microbiota-gut-brain axis has been the focus of multiple studies and is closely associated with cognitive function. This article provides a comprehensive review of the specific changes that occur in the composition of the gut microbiota and microbial metabolites in older individuals and discusses how the aging of astrocytes and reactive astrocytosis are closely related to age-related cognitive decline and neurodegenerative diseases. This article also summarizes the gut microbiota components that affect astrocyte function, mainly through the vagus nerve, immune responses, circadian rhythms, and microbial metabolites. Finally, this article summarizes the mechanism by which the gut microbiota-astrocyte axis plays a role in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Our findings have revealed the critical role of the microbiota-astrocyte axis in age-related cognitive decline, aiding in a deeper understanding of potential gut microbiome-based adjuvant therapy strategies for this condition.


38344171|t|The interplay between microbiota and brain-gut axis in epilepsy treatment.
38344171|w|Hanxiao Zhu; Wei Wang; Yun Li
38344171|j|Frontiers in pharmacology
38344171|y|2024
38344171|a|The brain-gut axis plays a vital role in connecting the cognitive and emotional centers of the brain with the intricate workings of the intestines. An imbalance in the microbiota-mediated brain-gut axis extends far beyond conditions like Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) and obesity, playing a critical role in the development and progression of various neurological disorders, including epilepsy, depression, Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Parkinson's disease (PD). Epilepsy, a brain disorder characterized by unprovoked seizures, affects approximately 50 million people worldwide. Accumulating evidence suggests that rebuilding the gut microbiota through interventions such as fecal microbiota transplantation, probiotics, and ketogenic diets (KD) can benefit drug-resistant epilepsy. The disturbances in the gut microbiota could contribute to the toxic side effects of antiepileptic drugs and the development of drug resistance in epilepsy patients. These findings imply the potential impact of the gut microbiota on epilepsy and suggest that interventions targeting the microbiota, such as the KD, hold promise for managing and treating epilepsy. However, the full extent of the importance of microbiota in epilepsy treatment is not yet fully understood, and many aspects of this field remain unclear. Therefore, this article aims to provide an overview of the clinical and animal evidence supporting the regulatory role of gut microbiota in epilepsy, and of potential pathways within the brain-gut axis that may be influenced by the gut microbiota in epilepsy. Furthermore, we will discuss the recent advancements in epilepsy treatment, including the KD, fecal microbiota transplantation, and antiseizure drugs, all from the perspective of the gut microbiota.


38237031|t|The contribution of age-related changes in the gut-brain axis to neurological disorders.
38237031|w|Romeesa Khan; Claudia M Di Gesù; Juneyoung Lee; Louise D McCullough
38237031|j|Gut microbes
38237031|y|2024
38237031|a|Trillions of microbes live symbiotically in the host, specifically in mucosal tissues such as the gut. Recent advances in metagenomics and metabolomics have revealed that the gut microbiota plays a critical role in the regulation of host immunity and metabolism, communicating through bidirectional interactions in the microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA). The gut microbiota regulates both gut and systemic immunity and contributes to the neurodevelopment and behaviors of the host. With aging, the composition of the microbiota changes, and emerging studies have linked these shifts in microbial populations to age-related neurological diseases (NDs). Preclinical studies have demonstrated that gut microbiota-targeted therapies can improve behavioral outcomes in the host by modulating microbial, metabolomic, and immunological profiles. In this review, we discuss the pathways of brain-to-gut or gut-to-brain signaling and summarize the role of gut microbiota and microbial metabolites across the lifespan and in disease. We highlight recent studies investigating 1) microbial changes with aging; 2) how aging of the maternal microbiome can affect offspring health; and 3) the contribution of the microbiome to both chronic age-related diseases (e.g., Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and cerebral amyloidosis), and acute brain injury, including ischemic stroke and traumatic brain injury.


38848023|t|The connection between gut microbiota and its metabolites with neurodegenerative diseases in humans.
38848023|w|João Paulo Fabi
38848023|j|Metabolic brain disease
38848023|y|2024
38848023|a|The aging of populations is a global phenomenon that follows a possible increase in the incidence of neurodegenerative diseases. Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Multiple Sclerosis, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, and Huntington's diseases are some neurodegenerative disorders that aging could initiate or aggravate. Recent research has indicated that intestinal microbiota dysbiosis can trigger metabolism and brain functioning, contributing to the etiopathogenesis of those neurodegenerative diseases. The intestinal microbiota and its metabolites show significant functions in various aspects, such as the immune system modulation (development and maturation), the maintenance of the intestinal barrier integrity, the modulation of neuromuscular functions in the intestine, and the facilitation of essential metabolic processes for both the microbiota and humans. The primary evidence supporting the connection between intestinal microbiota and its metabolites with neurodegenerative diseases are epidemiological observations and animal models experimentation. This paper reviews up-to-date evidence on the correlation between the microbiota-gut-brain axis and neurodegenerative diseases, with a specially focus on gut metabolites. Dysbiosis can increase inflammatory cytokines and bacterial metabolites, altering intestinal and blood-brain barrier permeability and causing neuroinflammation, thus facilitating the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Clinical data supporting this evidence still needs to be improved. Most of the works found are descriptive and associated with the presence of phyla or species of bacteria with neurodegenerative diseases. Despite the limitations of recent research, the potential for elucidating clinical questions that have thus far eluded clarification within prevailing pathophysiological frameworks of health and disease is promising through investigation of the interplay between the host and microbiota.


39113894|t|Exploring Causal Links Between Gut Microbiota and Geriatric Syndromes: A Two-Sample Mendelian Randomization Analysis.
39113894|w|Qiuru Yao; Ling Chen; Yuxin Cai; Changxi Li; Shuyang Wen; Chun Yang; Qi Zhang; Yuting Zeng; Shuqi Zheng; Jihua Zou; Guozhi Huang; Qing Zeng
39113894|j|International journal of medical sciences
39113894|y|2024
39113894|a|<b>Background:</b> Both observational studies and clinical trials have demonstrated a link between the gut microbiota and the geriatric syndrome. Nevertheless, the exact nature of this relationship, particularly concerning causality, remains elusive. Mendelian randomization (MR) is a method of inference based on genetic variation to assess the causal relationship between an exposure and an outcome. In this study, we conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomization (TSMR) study to fully reveal the potential genetic causal effects of gut microbiota on geriatric syndromes. <b>Methods:</b> This study used data from genome wide association studies (GWAS) to investigate causal relationships between the gut microbiota and geriatric syndromes, including frailty, Parkinson's disease (PD), delirium, insomnia, and depression. The primary causal relationships were evaluated using the inverse-variance weighted method, MR Egger, simple mode, weighted mode and weighted median. To assess the robustness of the results, horizontal pleiotropy was examined through MR-Egger intercept and MR-presso methods. Heterogeneity was assessed using Cochran's Q test, and sensitivity was evaluated via the leave-one-out method. <b>Results:</b> We identified 41 probable causal relationships between gut microbiota and five geriatric syndrome-associated illnesses using the inverse-variance weighted method. Frailty showed five positive and two negative causal relationships, while PD revealed three positive and four negative causal connections. Delirium showed three positive and two negative causal relationships. Similarly, insomnia demonstrated nine positive and two negative causal connections, while depression presented nine positive and two negative causal relationships. <b>Conclusions:</b> Using the TSMR method and data from the public GWAS database and, we observed associations between specific microbiota groups and geriatric syndromes. These findings suggest a potential role of gut microbiota in the development of geriatric syndromes, providing valuable insights for further research into the causal relationship between gut microbiota and these syndromes.


38409641|t|Neuroprotective Effects of Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis NJ241 in a Mouse Model of Parkinson's Disease: Implications for Gut Microbiota and PGC-1α.
38409641|w|Yuxuan Dong; Yueyan Qi; Jinhu Chen; Siyuan Han; Wenjing Su; Xin Ma; Yang Yu; Yanqin Wang
38409641|j|Molecular neurobiology
38409641|y|2024
38409641|a|Intestinal dysbiosis plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), and probiotics have emerged as potential modulators of central nervous system function through the microbiota-gut-brain axis. This study aimed to elucidate the anti-inflammatory effects and underlying mechanisms of the probiotic strain Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis NJ241 (NJ241) in a mouse model of PD induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). The impact of NJ241 was comprehensively assessed in PD mice through behavioral tests, immunofluorescence, Western blotting, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), 16S rRNA sequencing, and short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) detection. NJ241 exhibited notable efficacy in mitigating MPTP-induced weight loss, gastrointestinal dysfunction, and behavioral deficits in mice. Furthermore, it demonstrated protected against MPTP-induced dopaminergic neuron death and inhibited the activation of glial cells in the substantia nigra (SN). NJ241 demonstrated the ability to normalized dysbiosis in the intestinal microbiota and elevate SCFA levels in PD mice. Additionally, NJ241 reversed MPTP-induced reductions in colonic GLP-1 levels and the expression of GLP-1R and PGC-1α in the SN. Notably, GLP-1R antagonists partially reversed the inhibitory effects of NJ241 on the activation of glial cells in the SN. In summary, NJ241 exerts a neuroprotective effect against MPTP-induced neuroinflammation by enhancing intestinal GLP-1 levels and activating nigral PGC-1α signaling. These findings provide a rationale for the exploration and development of probiotic-based therapeutic strategies for PD.


38385354|t|<i>Gastrodia elata</i> polysaccharide alleviates Parkinson's disease <i>via</i> inhibiting apoptotic and inflammatory signaling pathways and modulating the gut microbiota.
38385354|w|Qing-Xia Gan; Mao-Yao Peng; Hao-Bo Wei; Lin-Lin Chen; Xiao-Yan Chen; Zi-Han Li; Guang-Qin An; Yun-Tong Ma
38385354|j|Food & function
38385354|y|2024
38385354|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common, chronic, and progressive degenerative disease of the central nervous system for which there is no effective treatment. <i>Gastrodia elata</i> is a well-known food and medicine homologous resource with neuroprotective potential. <i>Gastrodia elata</i> polysaccharide (GEP), which is a highly active and safe component in <i>Gastrodia elata</i>, is an important ingredient in the development of functional products. In this study, GEP was administered to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced mice over 3 weeks to investigate its neuroprotective effects. The results showed that GEP significantly alleviated the motor dysfunction of PD mice, inhibited the accumulation of α-synuclein, and reduced the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the brain. Moreover, GEP increased the Bcl-2/Bax ratio and decreased the cleaved-caspase-3 level, suggesting that GEP may ameliorate PD by preventing MPTP-induced mitochondrial apoptosis. GEP also significantly inhibited the increase of GFAP and decreased the levels of TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 in the brain of PD mice, which may be the result of the inhibition of neuroinflammation by the inactivation of the TLR4/NF-κB pathway. Furthermore, the neuroprotective effects of GEP involve the gut-brain axis, as it has been shown that GEP regulated the dysbiosis of PD-related gut microbiota such as <i>Akkermansia</i>, <i>Lactobacillus</i>, <i>Bacteroides</i>, <i>Prevotella</i>, and <i>Faecalibacterium</i>, increased the content of microbial metabolites SCFAs in the colon and increased the level of occludin that repairs the intestinal barrier of PD mice. In conclusion, this study is expected to provide a theoretical basis for the development and application of functional products with GEP from the perspective of neuroprotective effects.


38211635|t|Microbiota-microglia crosstalk between Blautia producta and neuroinflammation of Parkinson's disease: A bench-to-bedside translational approach.
38211635|w|Jiaming Liu; Xinhuang Lv; Tao Ye; Ming Zhao; Zhibo Chen; Yang Zhang; Wenwen Yang; Huijia Xie; Lu Zhan; Liuzhu Chen; Wen-Chun Liu; Kuan-Pin Su; Jing Sun
38211635|j|Brain, behavior, and immunity
38211635|y|2024
38211635|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is intricately linked to abnormal gut microbiota, yet the specific microbiota influencing clinical outcomes remain poorly understood. Our study identified a deficiency in the microbiota genus Blautia and a reduction in fecal short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) butyrate level in PD patients compared to healthy controls. The abundance of Blautia correlated with the clinical severity of PD. Supplementation with butyrate-producing bacterium B. producta demonstrated neuroprotective effects, attenuating neuroinflammation and dopaminergic neuronal death in mice, consequently ameliorating motor dysfunction. A pivotal inflammatory signaling pathway, the RAS-related pathway, modulated by butyrate, emerged as a key mechanism inhibiting microglial activation in PD. The change of RAS-NF-κB pathway in PD patients was observed. Furthermore, B. producta-derived butyrate demonstrated the inhibition of microglial activation in PD through regulation of the RAS-NF-κB pathway. These findings elucidate the causal relationship between specific gut microbiota and PD, presenting a novel microbiota-based treatment perspective for PD.


38755164|t|Gut microbiota produces biofilm-associated amyloids with potential for neurodegeneration.
38755164|w|Ariadna Fernández-Calvet; Leticia Matilla-Cuenca; María Izco; Susanna Navarro; Miriam Serrano; Salvador Ventura; Javier Blesa; Maite Herráiz; Gorka Alkorta-Aranburu; Sergio Galera; Igor Ruiz de Los Mozos; María Luisa Mansego; Alejandro Toledo-Arana; Lydia Alvarez-Erviti; Jaione Valle
38755164|j|Nature communications
38755164|y|2024
38755164|a|Age-related neurodegenerative diseases involving amyloid aggregation remain one of the biggest challenges of modern medicine. Alterations in the gastrointestinal microbiome play an active role in the aetiology of neurological disorders. Here, we dissect the amyloidogenic properties of biofilm-associated proteins (BAPs) of the gut microbiota and their implications for synucleinopathies. We demonstrate that BAPs are naturally assembled as amyloid-like fibrils in insoluble fractions isolated from the human gut microbiota. We show that BAP genes are part of the accessory genomes, revealing microbiome variability. Remarkably, the abundance of certain BAP genes in the gut microbiome is correlated with Parkinson's disease (PD) incidence. Using cultured dopaminergic neurons and Caenorhabditis elegans models, we report that BAP-derived amyloids induce α-synuclein aggregation. Our results show that the chaperone-mediated autophagy is compromised by BAP amyloids. Indeed, inoculation of BAP fibrils into the brains of wild-type mice promote key pathological features of PD. Therefore, our findings establish the use of BAP amyloids as potential targets and biomarkers of α-synucleinopathies.


38518598|t|Gut microbiota in neurological diseases: Melatonin plays an important regulatory role.
38518598|w|Somayeh Ahmadi; Mohammad Taghizadieh; Elham Mehdizadehfar; Alka Hasani; Javad Khalili Fard; Hadi Feizi; Hammed Hamishehkar; Masood Ansarin; Mina Yekani; Mohammad Yousef Memar
38518598|j|Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie
38518598|y|2024
38518598|a|Melatonin is a highly conserved molecule produced in the human pineal gland as a hormone. It is known for its essential biological effects, such as antioxidant activity, circadian rhythm regulator, and immunomodulatory effects. The gut is one of the primary known sources of melatonin. The gut microbiota helps produce melatonin from tryptophan, and melatonin has been shown to have a beneficial effect on gut barrier function and microbial population. Dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiota is associated with bacterial imbalance and decreased beneficial microbial metabolites, including melatonin. In this way, low melatonin levels may be related to several human diseases. Melatonin has shown both preventive and therapeutic effects against various conditions, including neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis. This review was aimed to discuss the role of melatonin in the body, and to describe the possible relationship between gut microbiota and melatonin production, as well as the potential therapeutic effects of melatonin on neurological diseases.


38244807|t|Potential effects of the most prescribed drugs on the microbiota-gut-brain-axis: A review.
38244807|w|Kirti Garg; M Hasan Mohajeri
38244807|j|Brain research bulletin
38244807|y|2024
38244807|a|The link between drug-induced dysbiosis and its influence on brain diseases through gut-residing bacteria and their metabolites, named the microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA), remains largely unexplored. This review investigates the effects of commonly prescribed drugs (metformin, statins, proton-pump-inhibitors, NSAIDs, and anti-depressants) on the gut microbiota, comparing the findings with altered bacterial populations in major brain diseases (depression, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's). The report aims to explore whether drugs can influence the development and progression of brain diseases via the MGBA. Central findings indicate that all explored drugs induce dysbiosis. These dysbiosis patterns were associated with brain disorders. The influence on brain diseases varied across different bacterial taxa, possibly mediated by direct effects or through bacterial metabolites. Each drug induced both positive and negative changes in the abundance of bacteria, indicating a counterbalancing effect. Moreover, the above-mentioned drugs exhibited similar effects, suggesting that they may counteract or enhance each other's effects on brain diseases when taken together by comorbid patients. In conclusion, the interplay of bacterial species and their abundances may have a greater impact on brain diseases than individual drugs or bacterial strains. Future research is needed to better understand drug-induced dysbiosis and the implications for brain disease pathogenesis, with the potential to develop more effective therapeutic options for patients with brain-related diseases.


38435303|t|Dysbiosis of the gut microbiota and its effect on α-synuclein and prion protein misfolding: consequences for neurodegeneration.
38435303|w|Nasir Uddin Mahbub; Md Minarul Islam; Seong-Tshool Hong; Hea-Jong Chung
38435303|j|Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology
38435303|y|2024
38435303|a|Abnormal behavior of α-synuclein and prion proteins is the hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD) and prion illnesses, respectively, being complex neurological disorders. A primary cause of protein aggregation, brain injury, and cognitive loss in prion illnesses is the misfolding of normal cellular prion proteins (PrP<sup>C</sup>) into an infectious form (PrP<sup>Sc</sup>). Aggregation of α-synuclein causes disruptions in cellular processes in Parkinson's disease (PD), leading to loss of dopamine-producing neurons and motor symptoms. Alteration in the composition or activity of gut microbes may weaken the intestinal barrier and make it possible for prions to go from the gut to the brain. The gut-brain axis is linked to neuroinflammation; the metabolites produced by the gut microbiota affect the aggregation of α-synuclein, regulate inflammation and immunological responses, and may influence the course of the disease and neurotoxicity of proteins, even if their primary targets are distinct proteins. This thorough analysis explores the complex interactions that exist between the gut microbiota and neurodegenerative illnesses, particularly Parkinson's disease (PD) and prion disorders. The involvement of the gut microbiota, a complex collection of bacteria, archaea, fungi, viruses etc., in various neurological illnesses is becoming increasingly recognized. The gut microbiome influences neuroinflammation, neurotransmitter synthesis, mitochondrial function, and intestinal barrier integrity through the gut-brain axis, which contributes to the development and progression of disease. The review delves into the molecular mechanisms that underlie these relationships, emphasizing the effects of microbial metabolites such as bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS), and short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) in regulating brain functioning. Additionally, it looks at how environmental influences and dietary decisions affect the gut microbiome and whether they could be risk factors for neurodegenerative illnesses. This study concludes by highlighting the critical role that the gut microbiota plays in the development of Parkinson's disease (PD) and prion disease. It also provides a promising direction for future research and possible treatment approaches. People afflicted by these difficult ailments may find hope in new preventive and therapeutic approaches if the role of the gut microbiota in these diseases is better understood.


39019779|t|Exercise perspective: Benefits and mechanisms of gut microbiota on the body.
39019779|w|Xin Gao; Peizhen Zhang
39019779|j|Zhong nan da xue xue bao. Yi xue ban = Journal of Central South University. Medical sciences
39019779|y|2024
39019779|a|Gut microbiota refers to the vast and diverse community of microorganisms residing in the intestines. Factors such as genetics, environmental influences (e.g., exercise, diet), and early life experiences (e.g., infant feeding methods) can all affect the ecological balance of gut microbiota within the body. Dysbiosis of the gut microbiota is associated with extra-intestinal diseases such as Parkinson's syndrome, osteoporosis, and autoimmune diseases, suggesting that disturbances in gut microbiota may be one of the causes of these diseases. Exercise benefits various diseases, with gut microbiota playing a role in regulating the nervous, musculoskeletal, and immune systems. Gut microbiota can impact the body's health status through the gut-brain axis, gut-muscle axis, and immune pathways. Moderate-intensity aerobic exercise can increase the quantity of gut microbiota and change microbial abundance, although short-term exercise does not significantly affect the alpha diversity of the microbiota. Resistance exercise also does not have a significant regulatory effect on gut microbiota.


38875045|t|The Gut-Brain Axis in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Diseases: The Catalytic Role of Mitochondria.
38875045|w|Emanuel Candeias; Ana Raquel Pereira-Santos; Nuno Empadinhas; Sandra Morais Cardoso; Ana Raquel Fernandes Esteves
38875045|j|Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD
38875045|y|2024
38875045|a|Accumulating evidence suggests that gut inflammation is implicated in neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Despite the numerous connections it remains unclear how the gut and the brain communicate and whether gut dysbiosis is the cause or consequence of these pathologies. Importantly, several reports highlight the importance of mitochondria in the gut-brain axis, as well as in mechanisms like gut epithelium self-renewal, differentiation, and homeostasis. Herein we comprehensively address the important role of mitochondria as a cellular hub in infection and inflammation and as a link between inflammation and neurodegeneration in the gut-brain axis. The role of mitochondria in gut homeostasis and as well the crosstalk between mitochondria and gut microbiota is discussed. Significantly, we also review studies highlighting how gut microbiota can ultimately affect the central nervous system. Overall, this review summarizes novel findings regarding this cross-talk where the mitochondria has a main role in the pathophysiology of both Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease strengthen by cellular, animal and clinical studies.


38804299|t|Neuromodulation and the Gut-Brain Axis: Therapeutic Mechanisms and Implications for Gastrointestinal and Neurological Disorders.
38804299|w|Baha' Aljeradat; Danisha Kumar; Sulaiman Abdulmuizz; Mrinmoy Kundu; Yasser F Almealawy; Dima Ratib Batarseh; Oday Atallah; Michelle Ennabe; Muath Alsarafandi; Albert Alan; Martin Weinand
38804299|j|Pathophysiology : the official journal of the International Society for Pathophysiology
38804299|y|2024
38804299|a|The gut-brain axis (GBA) represents a complex, bidirectional communication network that intricately connects the gastrointestinal tract with the central nervous system (CNS). Understanding and intervening in this axis opens a pathway for therapeutic advancements for neurological and gastrointestinal diseases where the GBA has been proposed to play a role in the pathophysiology. In light of this, the current review assesses the effectiveness of neuromodulation techniques in treating neurological and gastrointestinal disorders by modulating the GBA, involving key elements such as gut microbiota, neurotrophic factors, and proinflammatory cytokines. Through a comprehensive literature review encompassing PubMed, Google Scholar, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Library, this research highlights the role played by the GBA in neurological and gastrointestinal diseases, in addition to the impact of neuromodulation on the management of these conditions which include both gastrointestinal (irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)) and neurological disorders (Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and neuropsychiatric disorders). Despite existing challenges, the ability of neuromodulation to adjust disrupted neural pathways, alleviate pain, and mitigate inflammation is significant in improving the quality of life for patients, thereby offering exciting prospects for future advancements in patient care.


39459534|t|The Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis and Neurological Disorders: A Comprehensive Review.
39459534|w|Mohammed M Nakhal; Lidya K Yassin; Rana Alyaqoubi; Sara Saeed; Alreem Alderei; Alya Alhammadi; Mirah Alshehhi; Afra Almehairbi; Shaikha Al Houqani; Shamsa BaniYas; Haia Qanadilo; Bassam R Ali; Safa Shehab; Yauhen Statsenko; Sarah Meribout; Bassem Sadek; Amal Akour; Mohammad I K Hamad
39459534|j|Life (Basel, Switzerland)
39459534|y|2024
39459534|a|Microbes have inhabited the earth for hundreds of millions of years longer than humans. The microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA) represents a bidirectional communication pathway. These communications occur between the central nervous system (CNS), the enteric nervous system (ENS), and the emotional and cognitive centres of the brain. The field of research on the gut-brain axis has grown significantly during the past two decades. Signalling occurs between the gut microbiota and the brain through the neural, endocrine, immune, and humoral pathways. A substantial body of evidence indicates that the MGBA plays a pivotal role in various neurological diseases. These include Alzheimer's disease (AD), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), Rett syndrome, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), non-Alzheimer's neurodegeneration and dementias, fronto-temporal lobe dementia (FTLD), Wilson-Konovalov disease (WD), multisystem atrophy (MSA), Huntington's chorea (HC), Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), depression, and schizophrenia (SCZ). Furthermore, the bidirectional correlation between therapeutics and the gut-brain axis will be discussed. Conversely, the mood of delivery, exercise, psychotropic agents, stress, and neurologic drugs can influence the MGBA. By understanding the MGBA, it may be possible to facilitate research into microbial-based interventions and therapeutic strategies for neurological diseases.


39300699|t|Microbiota-gut-brain axis in health and neurological disease: Interactions between gut microbiota and the nervous system.
39300699|w|Yuhong He; Ke Wang; Niri Su; Chongshan Yuan; Naisheng Zhang; Xiaoyu Hu; Yunhe Fu; Feng Zhao
39300699|j|Journal of cellular and molecular medicine
39300699|y|2024
39300699|a|Along with mounting evidence that gut microbiota and their metabolites migrate endogenously to distal organs, the 'gut-lung axis,' 'gut-brain axis,' 'gut-liver axis' and 'gut-renal axis' have been established. Multiple animal recent studies have demonstrated gut microbiota may also be a key susceptibility factor for neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and autism. The gastrointestinal tract is innervated by the extrinsic sympathetic and vagal nerves and the intrinsic enteric nervous system, and the gut microbiota interacts with the nervous system to maintain homeostatic balance in the host gut. A total of 1507 publications on the interactions between the gut microbiota, the gut-brain axis and neurological disorders are retrieved from the Web of Science to investigate the interactions between the gut microbiota and the nervous system and the underlying mechanisms involved in normal and disease states. We provide a comprehensive overview of the effects of the gut microbiota and its metabolites on nervous system function and neurotransmitter secretion, as well as alterations in the gut microbiota in neurological disorders, to provide a basis for the possibility of targeting the gut microbiota as a therapeutic agent for neurological disorders.


39161161|t|Fecal microbiota from patients with Parkinson's disease intensifies inflammation and neurodegeneration in A53T mice.
39161161|w|Huijia Yang; Yaping Shao; Yiying Hu; Jin Qian; Panpan Wang; Lulu Tian; Yang Ni; Song Li; Murad Al-Nusaif; Cong Liu; Weidong Le
39161161|j|CNS neuroscience & therapeutics
39161161|y|2024
39161161|a|We evaluated the potential of Parkinson's disease (PD) fecal microbiota transplantation to initiate or exacerbate PD pathologies and investigated the underlying mechanisms. We transplanted the fecal microbiota from PD patients into mice by oral gavage and assessed the motor and intestinal functions, as well as the inflammatory and pathological changes in the colon and brain. Furthermore, 16S rRNA gene sequencing combined with metabolomics analysis was conducted to assess the impacts of fecal delivery on the fecal microbiota and metabolism in recipient mice. The fecal microbiota from PD patients increased intestinal inflammation, deteriorated intestinal barrier function, intensified microglia and astrocyte activation, abnormal deposition of α-Synuclein, and dopaminergic neuronal loss in the brains of A53T mice. A mechanistic study revealed that the fecal microbiota of PD patients stimulated the TLR4/NF-κB/NLRP3 pathway in both the brain and colon. Additionally, multiomics analysis found that transplantation of fecal microbiota from PD patients not only altered the composition of the gut microbiota but also influenced the fecal metabolic profile of the recipient mice. The fecal microbiota from PD patients intensifies inflammation and neurodegeneration in A53T mice. Our findings demonstrate that imbalance and dysfunction in the gut microbiome play significant roles in the development and advancement of PD.


38314132|t|Relationship among Parkinson's disease, constipation, microbes, and microbiological therapy.
38314132|w|Xin-Yang Yuan; Yu-Sen Chen; Zhou Liu
38314132|j|World journal of gastroenterology
38314132|y|2024
38314132|a|This comprehensive review elucidates the complex interplay between gut microbiota and constipation in Parkinson's disease (PD), a prevalent non-motor symptom contributing significantly to patients' morbidity. A marked alteration in the gut microbiota, predominantly an increase in the abundance of <i>Proteobacteria</i> and <i>Bacteroidetes</i>, is observed in PD-related constipation. Conventional treatments, although safe, have failed to effectively alleviate symptoms, thereby necessitating the development of novel therapeutic strategies. Microbiological interventions such as prebiotics, probiotics, and fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) hold therapeutic potential. While prebiotics improve bowel movements, probiotics are effective in enhancing stool consistency and alleviating abdominal discomfort. FMT shows potential for significantly alleviating constipation symptoms by restoring gut microbiota balance in patients with PD. Despite promising developments, the causal relationship between changes in gut microbiota and PD-related constipation remains elusive, highlighting the need for further research in this expanding field.


39064171|t|The Brain-Gut Axis, an Important Player in Alzheimer and Parkinson Disease: A Narrative Review.
39064171|w|Eugenio Caradonna; Raffaello Nemni; Angelo Bifone; Patrizia Gandolfo; Lucy Costantino; Luca Giordano; Elisabetta Mormone; Anna Macula; Mariarosa Cuomo; Rossana Difruscolo; Camilla Vanoli; Emilio Vanoli; Fulvio Ferrara
39064171|j|Journal of clinical medicine
39064171|y|2024
39064171|a|Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), are severe age-related disorders with complex and multifactorial causes. Recent research suggests a critical link between neurodegeneration and the gut microbiome, via the gut-brain communication pathway. This review examines the role of trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO), a gut microbiota-derived metabolite, in the development of AD and PD, and investigates its interaction with microRNAs (miRNAs) along this bidirectional pathway. TMAO, which is produced from dietary metabolites like choline and carnitine, has been linked to increased neuroinflammation, protein misfolding, and cognitive decline. In AD, elevated TMAO levels are associated with amyloid-beta and tau pathologies, blood-brain barrier disruption, and neuronal death. TMAO can cross the blood-brain barrier and promote the aggregation of amyloid and tau proteins. Similarly, TMAO affects alpha-synuclein conformation and aggregation, a hallmark of PD. TMAO also activates pro-inflammatory pathways such as NF-kB signaling, exacerbating neuroinflammation further. Moreover, TMAO modulates the expression of various miRNAs that are involved in neurodegenerative processes. Thus, the gut microbiome-miRNA-brain axis represents a newly discovered mechanistic link between gut dysbiosis and neurodegeneration. MiRNAs regulate the key pathways involved in neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and neuronal death, contributing to disease progression. As a direct consequence, specific miRNA signatures may serve as potential biomarkers for the early detection and monitoring of AD and PD progression. This review aims to elucidate the complex interrelationships between the gut microbiota, trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO), microRNAs (miRNAs), and the central nervous system, and the implications of these connections in neurodegenerative diseases. In this context, an overview of the current neuroradiology techniques available for studying neuroinflammation and of the animal models used to investigate these intricate pathologies will also be provided. In summary, a bulk of evidence supports the concept that modulating the gut-brain communication pathway through dietary changes, the manipulation of the microbiome, and/or miRNA-based therapies may offer novel approaches for implementing the treatment of debilitating neurological disorders.


38727306|t|From the Gut to the Brain: Is Microbiota a New Paradigm in Parkinson's Disease Treatment?
38727306|w|Cristiana Vilela; Bruna Araújo; Carla Soares-Guedes; Rita Caridade-Silva; Joana Martins-Macedo; Catarina Teixeira; Eduardo D Gomes; Cristina Prudêncio; Mónica Vieira; Fábio G Teixeira
38727306|j|Cells
38727306|y|2024
38727306|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is recognized as the second most prevalent primary chronic neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system. Clinically, PD is characterized as a movement disorder, exhibiting an incidence and mortality rate that is increasing faster than any other neurological condition. In recent years, there has been a growing interest concerning the role of the gut microbiota in the etiology and pathophysiology of PD. The establishment of a brain-gut microbiota axis is now real, with evidence denoting a bidirectional communication between the brain and the gut microbiota through metabolic, immune, neuronal, and endocrine mechanisms and pathways. Among these, the vagus nerve represents the most direct form of communication between the brain and the gut. Given the potential interactions between bacteria and drugs, it has been observed that the therapies for PD can have an impact on the composition of the microbiota. Therefore, in the scope of the present review, we will discuss the current understanding of gut microbiota on PD and whether this may be a new paradigm for treating this devastating disease.


38817603|t|The microbiota-gut-brain-immune interface in the pathogenesis of neuroinflammatory diseases: a narrative review of the emerging literature.
38817603|w|Alison Warren; Yvonne Nyavor; Nikkia Zarabian; Aidan Mahoney; Leigh A Frame
38817603|j|Frontiers in immunology
38817603|y|2024
38817603|a|Research is beginning to elucidate the sophisticated mechanisms underlying the microbiota-gut-brain-immune interface, moving from primarily animal models to human studies. Findings support the dynamic relationships between the gut microbiota as an ecosystem (microbiome) within an ecosystem (host) and its intersection with the host immune and nervous systems. Adding this to the effects on epigenetic regulation of gene expression further complicates and strengthens the response. At the heart is inflammation, which manifests in a variety of pathologies including neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Generally, the research to date is limited and has focused on bacteria, likely due to the simplicity and cost-effectiveness of 16s rRNA sequencing, despite its lower resolution and inability to determine functional ability/alterations. However, this omits all other microbiota including fungi, viruses, and phages, which are emerging as key members of the human microbiome. Much of the research has been done in pre-clinical models and/or in small human studies in more developed parts of the world. The relationships observed are promising but cannot be considered reliable or generalizable at this time. Specifically, causal relationships cannot be determined currently. More research has been done in Alzheimer's disease, followed by Parkinson's disease, and then little in MS. The data for MS is encouraging despite this. While the research is still nascent, the microbiota-gut-brain-immune interface may be a missing link, which has hampered our progress on understanding, let alone preventing, managing, or putting into remission neurodegenerative diseases. Relationships must first be established in humans, as animal models have been shown to poorly translate to complex human physiology and environments, especially when investigating the human gut microbiome and its relationships where animal models are often overly simplistic. Only then can robust research be conducted in humans and using mechanistic model systems.


38873926|t|Associations between gut microbiota characteristics and non-motor symptoms following pharmacological and surgical treatments in Parkinson's disease patients.
38873926|w|Agnieszka Gorecka-Mazur; Anna Krygowska-Wajs; Agata Furgala; Jiaqi Li; Benjamin Misselwitz; Wojciech Pietraszko; Borys Kwinta; Bahtiyar Yilmaz
38873926|j|Neurogastroenterology and motility
38873926|y|2024
38873926|a|The gut microbiota has been implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD), with alterations observed in microbial composition and reduced microbial species richness, which may influence gastrointestinal symptoms in PD patients. It remains to be determined whether the severity of gastrointestinal symptoms correlates with microbiota variations in PD patients treated pharmacologically or with subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS) therapy. This study aims to explore how these treatments affect gut microbiota and gastrointestinal symptoms in PD, identifying specific microbial differences associated with each treatment modality. A total of 42 individuals diagnosed with PD, along with 38 age-matched household control participants, contributed stool samples for microbiota characterization. Differences in the gut microbiota across various groups of PD patients and their households were identified through comprehensive sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Differences in microbial communities were observed between PD patients and controls, as well as between PD patients receiving pharmacological treatment and those with STN-DBS. Pharmacologically treated advanced PD patients have higher gastrointestinal dysfunctions. Gut microbiota profile linked to STN-DBS and reduced levodopa consumption, characterized by its anti-inflammatory properties, might play a role in diminishing gastrointestinal dysfunction relative to only pharmacological treatments. Advanced PD patients on medication exhibit more gastrointestinal issues, despite relatively stable microbial diversity, indicating a complex interaction between gut microbiota, PD progression, and treatment effects. An imbalanced gut-brain axis, particularly due to reduced butyrate production, may lead to constipation by affecting the enteric nervous system, which emphasizes the need to incorporate gut microbiome insights into treatment strategies.


38694925|t|Buty and the beast: the complex role of butyrate in Parkinson's disease.
38694925|w|Joshua D Elford; Nanette Becht; Johan Garssen; Aletta D Kraneveld; Paula Perez-Pardo
38694925|j|Frontiers in pharmacology
38694925|y|2024
38694925|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disease which is often associated with gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction. The GI tract is home to a wide range of microorganisms, among which bacteria, that can influence the host through various mechanisms. Products produced by these bacteria can act in the gut but can also exert effects in the brain via what is now well established to be the microbiota-gut-brain axis. In those with PD the gut-bacteria composition is often found to be different to that of non-PD individuals. In addition to compositional changes, the metabolic activity of the gut-microbiota is also changed in PD. Specifically, it is often reported that key producers of short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) as well as the concentration of SCFAs themselves are altered in the stool and blood of those with PD. These SCFAs, among which butyrate, are essential nutrients for the host and are a major energy source for epithelial cells of the GI tract. Additionally, butyrate plays a key role in regulating various host responses particularly in relation to inflammation. Studies have demonstrated that a reduction in butyrate levels can have a critical role in the onset and progression of PD. Furthermore, it has been shown that restoring butyrate levels in those with PD through methods such as probiotics, prebiotics, sodium butyrate supplementation, and fecal transplantation can have a beneficial effect on both motor and non-motor outcomes of the disease. This review presents an overview of evidence for the altered gut-bacteria composition and corresponding metabolite production in those with PD, with a particular focus on the SCFA butyrate. In addition to presenting current studies regarding SCFA in clinical and preclinical reports, evidence for the possibility to target butyrate production using microbiome based approaches in a therapeutic context is discussed.


38449863|t|Protective effects of fecal microbiota transplantation against ischemic stroke and other neurological disorders: an update.
38449863|w|Tousif Ahmed Hediyal; C Vichitra; Nikhilesh Anand; Mahendran Bhaskaran; Saeefh M Essa; Pravir Kumar; M Walid Qoronfleh; Mohammed Akbar; Ruchika Kaul-Ghanekar; Arehally M Mahalakshmi; Jian Yang; Byoung-Joon Song; Tanya M Monaghan; Meena Kishore Sakharkar; Saravana Babu Chidambaram
38449863|j|Frontiers in immunology
38449863|y|2024
38449863|a|The bidirectional communication between the gut and brain or gut-brain axis is regulated by several gut microbes and microbial derived metabolites, such as short-chain fatty acids, trimethylamine N-oxide, and lipopolysaccharides. The Gut microbiota (GM) produce neuroactives, specifically neurotransmitters that modulates local and central neuronal brain functions. An imbalance between intestinal commensals and pathobionts leads to a disruption in the gut microbiota or dysbiosis, which affects intestinal barrier integrity and gut-immune and neuroimmune systems. Currently, fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) is recommended for the treatment of recurrent <i>Clostridioides difficile</i> infection. FMT elicits its action by ameliorating inflammatory responses through the restoration of microbial composition and functionality. Thus, FMT may be a potential therapeutic option in suppressing neuroinflammation in post-stroke conditions and other neurological disorders involving the neuroimmune axis. Specifically, FMT protects against ischemic injury by decreasing IL-17, IFN-γ, Bax, and increasing Bcl-2 expression. Interestingly, FMT improves cognitive function by lowering amyloid-β accumulation and upregulating synaptic marker (PSD-95, synapsin-1) expression in Alzheimer's disease. In Parkinson's disease, FMT was shown to inhibit the expression of TLR4 and NF-κB. In this review article, we have summarized the potential sources and methods of administration of FMT and its impact on neuroimmune and cognitive functions. We also provide a comprehensive update on the beneficial effects of FMT in various neurological disorders by undertaking a detailed interrogation of the preclinical and clinical published literature.


39334720|t|Redox Homeostasis, Gut Microbiota, and Epigenetics in Neurodegenerative Diseases: A Systematic Review.
39334720|w|Constantin Munteanu; Anca Irina Galaction; Marius Turnea; Corneliu Dan Blendea; Mariana Rotariu; Mădălina Poștaru
39334720|j|Antioxidants (Basel, Switzerland)
39334720|y|2024
39334720|a|Neurodegenerative diseases encompass a spectrum of disorders marked by the progressive degeneration of the structure and function of the nervous system. These conditions, including Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), Huntington's disease (HD), Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Multiple sclerosis (MS), often lead to severe cognitive and motor deficits. A critical component of neurodegenerative disease pathologies is the imbalance between pro-oxidant and antioxidant mechanisms, culminating in oxidative stress. The brain's high oxygen consumption and lipid-rich environment make it particularly vulnerable to oxidative damage. Pro-oxidants such as reactive nitrogen species (RNS) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) are continuously generated during normal metabolism, counteracted by enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant defenses. In neurodegenerative diseases, this balance is disrupted, leading to neuronal damage. This systematic review explores the roles of oxidative stress, gut microbiota, and epigenetic modifications in neurodegenerative diseases, aiming to elucidate the interplay between these factors and identify potential therapeutic strategies. We conducted a comprehensive search of articles published in 2024 across major databases, focusing on studies examining the relationships between redox homeostasis, gut microbiota, and epigenetic changes in neurodegeneration. A total of 161 studies were included, comprising clinical trials, observational studies, and experimental research. Our findings reveal that oxidative stress plays a central role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, with gut microbiota composition and epigenetic modifications significantly influencing redox balance. Specific bacterial taxa and epigenetic markers were identified as potential modulators of oxidative stress, suggesting novel avenues for therapeutic intervention. Moreover, recent evidence from human and animal studies supports the emerging concept of targeting redox homeostasis through microbiota and epigenetic therapies. Future research should focus on validating these targets in clinical settings and exploring the potential for personalized medicine strategies based on individual microbiota and epigenetic profiles.


38227539|t|Gut microbiota dysbiosis contributes to α-synuclein-related pathology associated with C/EBPβ/AEP signaling activation in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease.
38227539|w|Xiaoli Fang; Sha Liu; Bilal Muhammad; Mingxuan Zheng; Xing Ge; Yan Xu; Shu Kan; Yang Zhang; Yinghua Yu; Kuiyang Zheng; Deqin Geng; Chun-Feng Liu
38227539|j|Neural regeneration research
38227539|y|2024
38227539|a|JOURNAL/nrgr/04.03/01300535-202409000-00042/figure1/v/2024-01-16T170235Z/r/image-tiff Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by motor and gastrointestinal dysfunction. Gastrointestinal dysfunction can precede the onset of motor symptoms by several years. Gut microbiota dysbiosis is involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, whether it plays a causal role in motor dysfunction, and the mechanism underlying this potential effect, remain unknown. CCAAT/enhancer binding protein β/asparagine endopeptidase (C/EBPβ/AEP) signaling, activated by bacterial endotoxin, can promote α-synuclein transcription, thereby contributing to Parkinson's disease pathology. In this study, we aimed to investigate the role of the gut microbiota in C/EBPβ/AEP signaling, α-synuclein-related pathology, and motor symptoms using a rotenone-induced mouse model of Parkinson's disease combined with antibiotic-induced microbiome depletion and fecal microbiota transplantation. We found that rotenone administration resulted in gut microbiota dysbiosis and perturbation of the intestinal barrier, as well as activation of the C/EBP/AEP pathway, α-synuclein aggregation, and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neuron loss in the substantia nigra in mice with motor deficits. However, treatment with rotenone did not have any of these adverse effects in mice whose gut microbiota was depleted by pretreatment with antibiotics. Importantly, we found that transplanting gut microbiota derived from mice treated with rotenone induced motor deficits, intestinal inflammation, and endotoxemia. Transplantation of fecal microbiota from healthy control mice alleviated rotenone-induced motor deficits, intestinal inflammation, endotoxemia, and intestinal barrier impairment. These results highlight the vital role that gut microbiota dysbiosis plays in inducing motor deficits, C/EBPβ/AEP signaling activation, and α-synuclein-related pathology in a rotenone-induced mouse model of Parkinson's disease. Additionally, our findings suggest that supplementing with healthy microbiota may be a safe and effective treatment that could help ameliorate the progression of motor deficits in patients with Parkinson's disease.


38840699|t|Correlation between dietary factors and Parkinson's disease revealed by the analysis of Mendelian randomization.
38840699|w|Shan Zeng; Aishanjiang Yusufujiang; Chunli Zhang; Chen Yang; Hongyan Li
38840699|j|Frontiers in nutrition
38840699|y|2024
38840699|a|The intricate interplay between dietary habits and the development of Parkinson's Disease (PD) has long been a subject of scientific inquiry. Mendelian Randomization (MR) emerges as a potent tool, harnessing genetic variants to infer causality in observational data. While evidence links diet to Parkinson's Disease (PD) etiology, a thorough MR exploration of dietary impacts on PD, particularly involving gut microbiota, is still emerging. This research leverages the IEU Open GWAS project's vast GWAS database to address the knowledge gap in understanding diet's influence on PD, employing a diverse range of dietary variables. Our holistic dataset includes various foods like processed fava beans, bap, red wine, to cheese, reflecting a commitment to untangling dietary complexities in PD etiology. Advancing from initial dietary-PD associations, we innovatively explore the gut microbiota, focusing on <i>Parabacteroides goldsteinii,</i> in relation to bap intake and PD, employing MR. Utilizing weighted median, MR-Egger, and inverse variance weighting methods, we ensure rigorous causality assessments, meticulously mitigating pleiotropy and heterogeneity biases to uphold finding validity. Our findings indicate red wine (OR: 1.031; 95% CI 1.001-1.062; <i>p</i> = 0.044) and dried fruit consumption (OR: 2.019; 95% CI 1.052-3.875; <i>p</i> = 0.035) correlate with increased PD risk, whereas broad beans (OR: 0.967; 95% CI 0.939-0.996; <i>p</i> = 0.024) and bap intake (OR: 0.922; 95% CI 0.860-0.989; <i>p</i> = 0.023) show protective effects against PD. Employing MR, specifically the IVW method, revealed a significant inverse association between bap intake and gut microbiota, marked by an 8.010-fold decrease in <i>Parabacteroides goldsteinii</i> per standard deviation increase in bap intake (95% CI 1.005-63.818, <i>p</i> = 0.049). Furthermore, a connection between PD and <i>Parabacteroides goldsteinii</i> was observed (OR: 0.810; 95% CI 0.768-0.999; <i>p</i> = 0.049), suggesting a potential microbiota-mediated pathway in PD etiology. Our study links dietary habits to PD risk, showing higher PD risk with red wine and dried fruit consumption, and a protective effect from broad beans and bap. Using MR, we found bap intake inversely correlates with <i>Parabacteroides goldsteinii</i> in the gut, suggesting bap influences microbiota. Further, higher <i>Parabacteroides goldsteinii</i> levels correlate with lower PD risk, highlighting a complex interplay of diet, gut microbiome, and neurological health. These insights shed light on potential dietary interventions for PD.


38957302|t|Mild cognitive impairment and microbiota: what is known and future perspectives.
38957302|w|Antonella Gallo; Anna Maria Martone; Rosa Liperoti; Maria Camilla Cipriani; Francesca Ibba; Sara Camilli; Fiammetta Maria Rognoni; Francesco Landi; Massimo Montalto
38957302|j|Frontiers in medicine
38957302|y|2024
38957302|a|Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a heterogeneous condition definable as the intermediate clinical state between normal aging and dementia. As a pre-dementia condition, there is a recent growing interest in the identification of non-invasive markers able to predict the progression from MCI to a more advanced stage of the disease. Previous evidence showed the close link between gut microbiota and neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Conversely, the actual relationship between gut microbiota and MCI is yet to be clarified. In this work, we provide an overview about the current knowledge regarding the role of gut microbiota in the context of MCI, also assessing the potential for microbiota-targeted therapies. Through the review of the most recent studies focusing on this topic, we found evidence of an increase of Bacteroidetes at phylum level and Bacteroides at genus level in MCI subjects with respect to healthy controls and patients with AD. Despite such initial evidence, the definitive identification of a typical microbiota profile associated with MCI is still far from being achieved. These preliminary results, however, are growingly encouraging research on the role of gut microbiota modulation in improving the cognitive status of pre-dementia subjects. To date, few studies evaluated the role of probiotics in MCI subjects, and they showed favorable results, although still biased by small sample size, heterogeneity of study design and short follow-up.


38773112|t|Meta-analysis of shotgun sequencing of gut microbiota in Parkinson's disease.
38773112|w|Hiroshi Nishiwaki; Jun Ueyama; Mikako Ito; Tomonari Hamaguchi; Keiichi Takimoto; Tetsuya Maeda; Kenichi Kashihara; Yoshio Tsuboi; Hiroshi Mori; Ken Kurokawa; Masahisa Katsuno; Masaaki Hirayama; Kinji Ohno
38773112|j|NPJ Parkinson's disease
38773112|y|2024
38773112|a|We aimed to identify gut microbial features in Parkinson's disease (PD) across countries by meta-analyzing our fecal shotgun sequencing dataset of 94 PD patients and 73 controls in Japan with five previously reported datasets from USA, Germany, China1, China2, and Taiwan. GC-MS and LC-MS/MS assays were established to quantify fecal short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and fecal polyamines, respectively. α-Diversity was increased in PD across six datasets. Taxonomic analysis showed that species Akkermansia muciniphila was increased in PD, while species Roseburia intestinalis and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii were decreased in PD. Pathway analysis showed that genes in the biosyntheses of riboflavin and biotin were markedly decreased in PD after adjusting for confounding factors. Five out of six categories in carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) were decreased in PD. Metabolomic analysis of our fecal samples revealed that fecal SCFAs and polyamines were significantly decreased in PD. Genes in the riboflavin and biotin biosyntheses were positively correlated with the fecal concentrations of SCFAs and polyamines. Bacteria that accounted for the decreased riboflavin biosynthesis in Japan, the USA, and Germany were different from those in China1, China2, and Taiwan. Similarly, different bacteria accounted for decreased biotin biosynthesis in the two country groups. We postulate that decreased SCFAs and polyamines reduce the intestinal mucus layer, which subsequently facilitates the formation of abnormal α-synuclein fibrils in the intestinal neural plexus in PD, and also cause neuroinflammation in PD.


39377830|t|Gut-Brain Axis and Neuroinflammation: The Role of Gut Permeability and the Kynurenine Pathway in Neurological Disorders.
39377830|w|Rowan Kearns
39377830|j|Cellular and molecular neurobiology
39377830|y|2024
39377830|a|The increasing prevalence of neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and multiple sclerosis presents a significant global health challenge. Despite extensive research, the precise mechanisms underlying these conditions remain elusive, with current treatments primarily addressing symptoms rather than root causes. Emerging evidence suggests that gut permeability and the kynurenine pathway are involved in the pathogenesis of these neurological conditions, offering promising targets for novel therapeutic and preventive strategies. Gut permeability refers to the intestinal lining's ability to selectively allow essential nutrients into the bloodstream while blocking harmful substances. Various factors, including poor diet, stress, infections, and genetic predispositions, can compromise gut integrity, leading to increased permeability. This condition facilitates the translocation of toxins and bacteria into systemic circulation, triggering widespread inflammation that impacts neurological health via the gut-brain axis. The gut-brain axis (GBA) is a complex communication network between the gut and the central nervous system. Dysbiosis, an imbalance in the gut microbiota, can increase gut permeability and systemic inflammation, exacerbating neuroinflammation-a key factor in neurological disorders. The kynurenine pathway, the primary route for tryptophan metabolism, is significantly implicated in this process. Dysregulation of the kynurenine pathway in the context of inflammation leads to the production of neurotoxic metabolites, such as quinolinic acid, which contribute to neuronal damage and the progression of neurological disorders. This narrative review highlights the potential and progress in understanding these mechanisms. Interventions targeting the kynurenine pathway and maintaining a balanced gut microbiota through diet, probiotics, and lifestyle modifications show promise in reducing neuroinflammation and supporting brain health. In addition, pharmacological approaches aimed at modulating the kynurenine pathway directly, such as inhibitors of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, offer potential avenues for new treatments. Understanding and targeting these interconnected pathways are crucial for developing effective strategies to prevent and manage neurological disorders.


39071627|t|Gut-brain axis: A cutting-edge approach to target neurological disorders and potential synbiotic application.
39071627|w|Sumel Ashique; Sourav Mohanto; Mohammed Gulzar Ahmed; Neeraj Mishra; Ashish Garg; Dinesh Kumar Chellappan; Timothy Omara; Shabnoor Iqbal; Ivan Kahwa
39071627|j|Heliyon
39071627|y|2024
39071627|a|The microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA) represents a sophisticated communication network between the brain and the gut, involving immunological, endocrinological, and neural mediators. This bidirectional interaction is facilitated through the vagus nerve, sympathetic and parasympathetic fibers, and is regulated by the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Evidence shows that alterations in gut microbiota composition, or dysbiosis, significantly impact neurological disorders (NDs) like anxiety, depression, autism, Parkinson's disease (PD), and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Dysbiosis can affect the central nervous system (CNS) via neuroinflammation and microglial activation, highlighting the importance of the microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA) in disease pathogenesis. The microbiota influences the immune system by modulating chemokines and cytokines, impacting neuronal health. Synbiotics have shown promise in treating NDs by enhancing cognitive function and reducing inflammation. The gut microbiota's role in producing neurotransmitters and neuroactive compounds, such as short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), is critical for CNS homeostasis. Therapeutic interventions targeting the MGBA, including dietary modulation and synbiotic supplementation, offer potential benefits for managing neurodegenerative disorders. However, more in-depth clinical studies are necessary to fully understand and harness the therapeutic potential of the MGBA in neurological health and disease.


39449004|t|Gut-first Parkinson's disease is encoded by gut dysbiome.
39449004|w|Mário F Munoz-Pinto; Emanuel Candeias; Inês Melo-Marques; A Raquel Esteves; Ana Maranha; João D Magalhães; Diogo Reis Carneiro; Mariana Sant'Anna; A Raquel Pereira-Santos; António E Abreu; Daniela Nunes-Costa; Susana Alarico; Igor Tiago; Ana Morgadinho; João Lemos; Pedro N Figueiredo; Cristina Januário; Nuno Empadinhas; Sandra Morais Cardoso
39449004|j|Molecular neurodegeneration
39449004|y|2024
39449004|a|In Parkinson's patients, intestinal dysbiosis can occur years before clinical diagnosis, implicating the gut and its microbiota in the disease. Recent evidence suggests the gut microbiota may trigger body-first Parkinson Disease (PD), yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aims to elucidate how a dysbiotic microbiome through intestinal immune alterations triggers PD-related neurodegeneration. To determine the impact of gut dysbiosis on the development and progression of PD pathology, wild-type male C57BL/6 mice were transplanted with fecal material from PD patients and age-matched healthy donors to challenge the gut-immune-brain axis. This study demonstrates that patient-derived intestinal microbiota caused midbrain tyrosine hydroxylase positive (TH +) cell loss and motor dysfunction. Ileum-associated microbiota remodeling correlates with a decrease in Th17 homeostatic cells. This event led to an increase in gut inflammation and intestinal barrier disruption. In this regard, we found a decrease in CD4 + cells and an increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines in the blood of PD transplanted mice that could contribute to an increase in the permeabilization of the blood-brain-barrier, observed by an increase in mesencephalic Ig-G-positive microvascular leaks and by an increase of mesencephalic IL-17 levels, compatible with systemic inflammation. Furthermore, alpha-synuclein aggregates can spread caudo-rostrally, causing fragmentation of neuronal mitochondria. This mitochondrial damage subsequently activates innate immune responses in neurons and triggers microglial activation. We propose that the dysbiotic gut microbiome (dysbiome) in PD can disrupt a healthy microbiome and Th17 homeostatic immunity in the ileum mucosa, leading to a cascade effect that propagates to the brain, ultimately contributing to PD pathophysiology. Our landmark study has successfully identified new peripheral biomarkers that could be used to develop highly effective strategies to prevent the progression of PD into the brain.


36200211|t|Targeting Gut Dysbiosis and Microbiome Metabolites for the Development of Therapeutic Modalities for Neurological Disorders.
36200211|w|Matthew D Wiefels; Emily Furar; Rebecca S Eshraghi; Jeenu Mittal; Idil Memis; Moeed Moosa; Rahul Mittal; Adrien A Eshraghi
36200211|j|Current neuropharmacology
36200211|y|2024
36200211|a|The gut microbiota, composed of numerous species of microbes, works in synergy with the various organ systems in the body to bolster our overall health and well-being. The most well-known function of the gut microbiome is to facilitate the metabolism and absorption of crucial nutrients, such as complex carbohydrates, while also generating vitamins. In addition, the gut microbiome plays a crucial role in regulating the functioning of the central nervous system (CNS). Host genetics, including specific genes and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), have been implicated in the pathophysiology of neurological disorders, including Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The gut microbiome dysbiosis also plays a role in the pathogenesis of these neurodegenerative disorders, thus perturbing the gut-brain axis. Overproduction of certain metabolites synthesized by the gut microbiome, such as short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and p-cresyl sulfate, are known to interfere with microglial function and trigger misfolding of alpha-synuclein protein, which can build up inside neurons and cause damage. By determining the association of the gut microbiome and its metabolites with various diseases, such as neurological disorders, future research will pave the way for the development of effective preventive and treatment modalities.


38265387|t|Bridging the Mind and Gut: Uncovering the Intricacies of Neurotransmitters, Neuropeptides, and their Influence on Neuropsychiatric Disorders.
38265387|w|Saumya Gupta; Susha Dinesh; Sameer Sharma
38265387|j|Central nervous system agents in medicinal chemistry
38265387|y|2024
38265387|a|The gut-brain axis (GBA) is a bidirectional signaling channel that facilitates communication between the gastrointestinal tract and the brain. Recent research on the gut-brain axis demonstrates that this connection enables the brain to influence gut function, which in turn influences the brain and its cognitive functioning. It is well established that malfunctioning of this axis adversely affects both systems' ability to operate effectively. Dysfunctions in the GBA have been associated with disorders of gut motility and permeability, intestinal inflammation, indigestion, constipation, diarrhea, IBS, and IBD, as well as neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders like depression, anxiety, schizophrenia, autism, Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's disease. Multiple research initiatives have shown that the gut microbiota, in particular, plays a crucial role in the GBA by participating in the regulation of a number of key neurochemicals that are known to have significant effects on the mental and physical well-being of an individual. Several studies have investigated the relationship between neuropsychiatric disorders and imbalances or disturbances in the metabolism of neurochemicals, often leading to concomitant gastrointestinal issues and modifications in gut flora composition. The interaction between neurological diseases and gut microbiota has been a focal point within this research. The novel therapeutic interventions in neuropsychiatric conditions involving interventions such as probiotics, prebiotics, and dietary modifications are outlined in this review. The findings of multiple studies carried out on mice show that modulating and monitoring gut microbiota can help treat symptoms of such diseases, which raises the possibility of the use of probiotics, prebiotics, and even dietary changes as part of a new treatment strategy for neuropsychiatric disorders and their symptoms. The bidirectional communication between the gut and the brain through the gut-brain axis has revealed profound implications for both gastrointestinal and neurological health. Malfunctions in this axis have been connected to a range of disorders affecting gut function as well as cognitive and neuropsychiatric well-being. The emerging understanding of the role of gut microbiota in regulating key neurochemicals opens up possibilities for novel treatment approaches for conditions like depression, anxiety, and neurodegenerative diseases.


38965287|t|A neurotherapeutic approach with Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus E9 on gut microbiota and intestinal barrier in MPTP-induced mouse model of Parkinson's disease.
38965287|w|Busra Aktas; Belma Aslim; Deniz Ates Ozdemir
38965287|j|Scientific reports
38965287|y|2024
38965287|a|The gut microbiota plays a crucial role in neural development and progression of neural disorders like Parkinson's disease (PD). Probiotics have been suggested to impact neurodegenerative diseases via gut-brain axis. This study aims to investigate the therapeutic potential of Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus E9, a high exopolysaccharide producer, on 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine(MPTP)-induced mouse model of PD. C57BL/6 mice subjected to MPTP were fed L. rhamnosus E9 for fifteen days and sacrificed after the last administration. Motor functions were determined by open-field, catalepsy, and wire-hanging tests. The ileum and the brain tissues were collected for ELISA, qPCR, and immunohistochemistry analyses. The cecum content was obtained for microbiota analysis. E9 supplementation alleviated MPTP-induced motor dysfunctions accompanied by decreased levels of striatal TH and dopamine. E9 also reduced the level of ROS in the striatum and decreased the DAT expression while increasing the DR1. Furthermore, E9 improved intestinal integrity by enhancing ZO-1 and Occludin levels and reversed the dysbiosis of the gut microbiota induced by MPTP. In conclusion, E9 supplementation improved the MPTP-induced motor deficits and neural damage as well as intestinal barrier by modulating the gut microbiota in PD mice. These findings suggest that E9 supplementation holds therapeutic potential in managing PD through the gut-brain axis.


39042202|t|Semaglutide Attenuates Anxious and Depressive-Like Behaviors and Reverses the Cognitive Impairment in a Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Mouse Model Via the Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis.
39042202|w|Igor Henrique Rodrigues de Paiva; Rodrigo Soares da Silva; Ingrid Prata Mendonça; José Roberto Botelho de Souza; Christina Alves Peixoto
39042202|j|Journal of neuroimmune pharmacology : the official journal of the Society on NeuroImmune Pharmacology
39042202|y|2024
39042202|a|Newly conducted research suggests that metabolic disorders, like diabetes and obesity, play a significant role as risk factors for psychiatric disorders. This connection presents a potential avenue for creating novel antidepressant medications by repurposing drugs originally developed to address antidiabetic conditions. Earlier investigations have shown that GLP-1 (Glucagon-like Peptide-1) analogs exhibit neuroprotective qualities in various models of neurological diseases, encompassing conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and stroke. Moreover, GLP-1 analogs have demonstrated the capability to enhance neurogenesis, a process recognized for its significance in memory formation and the cognitive and emotional aspects of information processing. Nonetheless, whether semaglutide holds efficacy as both an antidepressant and anxiolytic agent remains uncertain. To address this, our study focused on a mouse model of depression linked to type 2 diabetes induced by a High Fat Diet (HFD). In this model, we administered semaglutide (0.05 mg/Kg intraperitoneally) on a weekly basis to evaluate its potential as a therapeutic option for depression and anxiety. Diabetic mice had higher blood glucose, lipidic profile, and insulin resistance. Moreover, mice fed HFD showed higher serum interleukin (IL)-1β and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) associated with impaired humor and cognition. The analysis of behavioral responses revealed that the administration of semaglutide effectively mitigated depressive- and anxiety-like behaviors, concurrently demonstrating an enhancement in cognitive function. Additionally, semaglutide treatment protected synaptic plasticity and reversed the hippocampal neuroinflammation induced by HFD fed, improving activation of the insulin pathway, demonstrating the protective effects of semaglutide. We also found that semaglutide treatment decreased astrogliosis and microgliosis in the dentate gyrus region of the hippocampus. In addition, semaglutide prevented the DM2-induced impairments of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), and G-protein-coupled receptor 43 (GPR43) and simultaneously increased the NeuN + and Glucagon-like Peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R+) neurons in the hippocampus. Our data also showed that semaglutide increased the serotonin (5-HT) and serotonin transporter (5-HTT) and glutamatergic receptors in the hippocampus. At last, semaglutide changed the gut microbiota profile (increasing Bacterioidetes, Bacteroides acidifaciens, and Blautia coccoides) and decreased leaky gut, improving the gut-brain axis. Taken together, semaglutide has the potential to act as a therapeutic tool for depression and anxiety.


39189380|t|Allantoin ameliorates dopaminergic neuronal damage in MPTP-induced Parkinson's disease mice <i>via</i> regulating oxidative damage, inflammation, and gut microbiota disorder.
39189380|w|Shuo Yang; Xiaojia Sun; Dianfeng Liu; Yiming Zhang; Xiyu Gao; Jiangmei He; Mingchi Cui; Shoupeng Fu; Dewei He
39189380|j|Food & function
39189380|y|2024
39189380|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic progressive neurodegenerative disease that often occurs in older people. Neuroinflammation and oxidative stress are important factors in the development of PD. Gastrointestinal dysfunction is the most common non-motor symptom, and inflammation of the gut, which activates the gut-brain axis, maybe a pathogenic factor. Previous studies have attributed anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects to Allantoin, but its function and mechanism of action in PD are unclear. This study aimed to investigate the effect and mechanism of Allantoin on 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD in mice. Our results showed that Allantoin administration ameliorated motor dysfunction and neuronal damage in mice injected with MPTP by inhibiting neuroinflammation and oxidative damage. Mechanistic studies showed that Allantoin suppresses inflammatory responses by inhibiting the overactivation of the NF-κB and MAPK signaling pathways, as well as oxidative stress by regulating the AKT/Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway. Notably, Allantoin also restored intestinal barrier function by modulating the gut microbiota and improving antioxidant and anti-inflammatory capacities to alleviate MPTP-induced motor deficits. In conclusion, the present study shows that the administration of Allantoin attenuated neurodegeneration in mice injected with MPTP by inhibiting neuroinflammation and oxidative stress and modulating the composition of the gut microbiome.


38854967|t|Bidirectional communication of the gut-brain axis: new findings in Parkinson's disease and inflammatory bowel disease.
38854967|w|Zhang Wanyi; Yan Jiao; Huang Wen; Xu Bin; Wang Xuefei; Jiang Lan; Zhou Liuyin
38854967|j|Frontiers in neurology
38854967|y|2024
38854967|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are the two chronic inflammatory diseases that are increasingly affecting millions of people worldwide, posing a major challenge to public health. PD and IBD show similarities in epidemiology, genetics, immune response, and gut microbiota. Here, we review the pathophysiology of these two diseases, including genetic factors, immune system imbalance, changes in gut microbial composition, and the effects of microbial metabolites (especially short-chain fatty acids). We elaborate on the gut-brain axis, focusing on role of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of PD and IBD. In addition, we discuss several therapeutic strategies, including drug therapy, fecal microbiota transplantation, and probiotic supplementation, and their potential benefits in regulating intestinal microecology and relieving disease symptoms. Our analysis will provide a new understanding and scientific basis for the development of more effective therapeutic strategies for these diseases.


39070266|t|Gut microbiota from patients with Parkinson's disease causes motor deficits in honeybees.
39070266|w|Jiaqi Zeng; Yiyuan Li; Jingshuang Yan; Ruqi Chang; Mengqi Xu; Guanzhou Zhou; Jie Meng; Di Liu; Zhiqi Mao; Yunsheng Yang
39070266|j|Frontiers in microbiology
39070266|y|2024
39070266|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is possibly caused by genetic factors, environmental factors, and gut microbiota dysbiosis. This study aims to explore whether the microbiota contributes to the behavior abnormalities of PD. We transplanted gut microbiota from patients with PD or healthy controls (HC) into microbiota-free honeybees. We also established two more groups, namely the rotenone (ROT) group, in which PD-like symptoms of honeybees were induced by rotenone, and the conventional (CV) group, in which honeybees were colonized with conventional gut microbiota. The climbing assay was performed to assess the motor capabilities of honeybees. Histopathological examination was conducted to evaluate the integrity of gut mucosa. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene expression levels and dopamine (DA) concentrations in the brain were also examined. Additionally, metagenomics and full-length 16S rRNA analyses were performed to identify alterations in gut microbiota profiles, both in PD patients and honeybees. Honeybees in the PD and ROT groups exhibited slower climbing speeds, downregulated TH gene expression, and impaired gut barriers. Both the HC and PD groups of honeybees successfully harbored a portion of gut microbiota from corresponding human donors, and differences in microbial composition were identified. <i>Morganella morganii</i> and <i>Erysipelatoclostridium ramosum</i> exhibited significantly increased relative abundance in the HC group, while <i>Dorea longicatena</i>, <i>Collinsella aerofaciens</i>, <i>Lactococcus garvieae</i>, <i>Holdemanella biformis</i>, <i>Gemmiger formicilis</i>, and <i>Blautia obeum</i> showed significantly increased relative abundance in the PD group. Functional predictions of microbial communities in the PD group indicated an increased synthesis of hydrogen sulfide and methane. A novel PD model was induced in honeybees with rotenone and gut microbiota from PD patients. This study linked PD-related behaviors to altered gut microbiota, highlighting a potential gut microbiota-brain axis involvement in PD pathogenesis. We identify previously unrecognized associations of <i>Dorea longicatena</i>, <i>Collinsella aerofaciens</i>, <i>Lactococcus garvieae</i>, <i>Holdemanella biformis</i>, <i>Gemmiger formicilis</i>, and <i>Blautia obeum</i> with PD. Additionally, pathways related to hydrogen sulfide and methane synthesis have been previously suggested as potential contributors to the development of PD, and our research further supports this hypothesis.


39065820|t|Sika Deer Velvet Antler Peptide Exerts Neuroprotective Effect in a Parkinson's Disease Model via Regulating Oxidative Damage and Gut Microbiota.
39065820|w|Ying Liu; Hongyuan Li; Min Yang; Jia Guo; Zepeng Sun; Shuyue Wang; Ru Li; Xin Pang; Yumi Kim; Xiaohui Wang; Yinghua Peng
39065820|j|Pharmaceuticals (Basel, Switzerland)
39065820|y|2024
39065820|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder globally. Recognizing the potential of velvet antler in the nervous system, as shown in numerous studies, this research was aimed at evaluating the neuroprotective effects of Sika Deer velvet antler peptide (VAP), along with the underlying mechanisms in neurotoxin-induced PD models. Initially, a peptidomic analysis of the VAP, which comprised 189 varieties of peptides, was conducted using LC-MS. Nine sequences were identified as significant using Proteome Discoverer 2.5 software. In a cellular model of PD, where PC12 cells are treated with the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP<sup>+</sup>), the administration of the VAP reduced the cell damage and apoptosis induced by MPP<sup>+</sup>. This protective effect was associated with a decrease in oxidative stress. This protective mechanism was found to be mediated through the activation of the SIRT1-dependent Akt/Nrf2/HO-1-signaling pathway. In animal models, specifically in mice with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD, the administration of the VAP effectively reduced the dopaminergic neuron damage and reversed the neurobehavioral deficits. They also diminished microglia activation and apoptosis, all without any noticeable adverse effects. Additionally, the VAP was observed to beneficially alter the gut microbiota, as marked by an increase in the abundances of <i>Prevotellaceae</i>, <i>Helicobacteraceae</i>, and <i>Prevotella</i>. These findings suggest that VAP exerts its neuroprotective effect against neurodegeneration by inhibiting oxidative stress and modulating gut microbiota.


38515447|t|Analyzing the bibliometrics of brain-gut axis and Parkinson's disease.
38515447|w|Lingshan Chen; Jianfei Chen; Min Wu; Pingkang Yan; Xueping Zhou
38515447|j|Frontiers in neurology
38515447|y|2024
38515447|a|Parkinson's disease (PD), characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons, is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Recent research has revealed a significant connection between gut microbiota and PD. To gain insight into research interests, disciplinary contexts, and potential future directions, a comprehensive bibliometric analysis was conducted on the brain-gut axis and PD literature published between 2014 and 2023. Relevant literature records were gathered from the Web of Science Core Collection on August 11, 2023. The data were then analyzed by Biblioshiny R packages and VOSviewer (version 1.6.19). The dataset revealed an upward trend in annual scientific publications on the brain-gut axis and PD, with an annual growth rate of 50.24%. China, the United States, and Italy were the top three most productive countries/regions. The journal "International Journal Of Molecular Sciences" published the most articles, while "Movement Disorders" received the highest number of citations. Professor Keshavarzian A emerged as the most prolific author, while Professor Scheperjans F held the highest h-index. Keyword analysis highlighted "alpha-synuclein" as the most frequent term, with "mouse model," "inflammation," and "risk" as emerging research topics. Additionally, "central nervous system" and "intestinal bacterial overgrowth" attracted increasing attention. This study examined current trends and hotspots in the bibliometric landscape of the brain-gut axis and PD research. Future research directions should explore the functional and metabolic activities of gut microbiota. Additionally, transitioning from observational to interventional study designs offers the potential for personalized interventions and disease prediction. These findings can guide researchers in navigating the latest developments and shaping the future directions of this field.


39078158|t|Meta-analysis of the human gut microbiome uncovers shared and distinct microbial signatures between diseases.
39078158|w|Dong-Min Jin; James T Morton; Richard Bonneau
39078158|j|mSystems
39078158|y|2024
39078158|a|Microbiome studies have revealed gut microbiota's potential impact on complex diseases. However, many studies often focus on one disease per cohort. We developed a meta-analysis workflow for gut microbiome profiles and analyzed shotgun metagenomic data covering 11 diseases. Using interpretable machine learning and differential abundance analysis, our findings reinforce the generalization of binary classifiers for Crohn's disease (CD) and colorectal cancer (CRC) to hold-out cohorts and highlight the key microbes driving these classifications. We identified high microbial similarity in disease pairs like CD vs ulcerative colitis (UC), CD vs CRC, Parkinson's disease vs type 2 diabetes (T2D), and schizophrenia vs T2D. We also found strong inverse correlations in Alzheimer's disease vs CD and UC. These findings, detected by our pipeline, provide valuable insights into these diseases. Assessing disease similarity is an essential initial step preceding a disease-based approach for drug repositioning. Our study provides a modest first step in underscoring the potential of integrating microbiome insights into the disease similarity assessment. Recent microbiome research has predominantly focused on analyzing individual diseases to understand their unique characteristics, which by design excludes comorbidities in individuals. We analyzed shotgun metagenomic data from existing studies and identified previously unknown similarities between diseases. Our research represents a pioneering effort that utilizes both interpretable machine learning and differential abundance analysis to assess microbial similarity between diseases.


38450172|t|Electroacupuncture at ST25 corrected gut microbial dysbiosis and SNpc lipid peroxidation in Parkinson's disease rats.
38450172|w|Xuan-Ming Hu; Li-Zhe-Xiong Song; Zhi-Zi Zhang; Xi Ruan; Hai-Chang Li; Zhi Yu; Lin Huang
38450172|j|Frontiers in microbiology
38450172|y|2024
38450172|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) remains one kind of a complex, progressive neurodegenerative disease. Levodopa and dopamine agonists as widely utilized PD therapeutics have not shown significant positive long-term outcomes. Emerging evidences indicate that electroacupuncture (EA) have potential effects on the therapy of nervous system disorders, particularly PD, but its specific underlying mechanism(s) remains poorly understood, leading to the great challenge of clinical application and management. Previous study has shown that acupuncture ameliorates PD motor symptoms and dopaminergic neuron damage by modulating intestinal dysbiosis, but its intermediate pathway has not been sufficiently investigated. A rat model of PD was induced using rotenone. The therapeutic effect of EA on PD was assessed using the pole and rotarod tests and immunohistostaining for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the substantia nigra (SN) of brain. The role of gut microbiota was explored using 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metabonomic analysis. PICRUSt2 analysis, lipidomic analysis, LPS and inflammatory factor assays were used for subsequent exploration and validation. Correlation analysis was used to identify the key bacteria that EA regulates lipid metabolism to improve PD. The present study firstly reappeared the effects of EA on protecting motor function and dopaminergic neurons and modulation of gut microbial dysbiosis in rotenone-induced PD rat model. EA improved motor dysfunction (via the pole and rotarod tests) and protected TH+ neurons in PD rats. EA increased the abundance of beneficial bacteria such as Lactobacillus, Dubosiella and Bifidobacterium and decreased the abundance of Escherichia-Shigella and Morganella belonging to Pseudomonadota, suggesting that the modulation of gut microbiota by EA improving the symptoms of PD motility via alleviating LPS-induced inflammatory response and oxidative stress, which was also validated by various aspects such as microbial gene functional analysis, fecal metabolomics analysis, LPS and inflammatory factor assays and SNpc lipidomics analysis. Moreover, correlation analyses also verified strong correlations of Escherichia-Shigella and Morganella with motor symptoms and SNpc lipid peroxidation, explicating targets and intermediate pathways through which EA improve PD exercise symptom. Our results indicate that the improvement of motor function in PD model by EA may be mediated in part by restoring the gut microbiota, which intermediate processes involve circulating endotoxins and inflammatory mediators, SNpc oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation. The gut-microbiome - brain axis may be a potential mechanism of EA treatment for the PD.


39417117|t|Toxic Metals Impact Gut Microbiota and Metabolic Risk in Five African-Origin Populations.
39417117|w|Julianne A Jorgensen; Candice Choo-Kang; Luyu Wang; Lina Issa; Jack A Gilbert; Gertrude Ecklu-Mensah; Amy Luke; Kweku Bedu-Addo; Terrence Forrester; Pascal Bovet; Estelle V Lambert; Dale Rae; Maria Argos; Tanika N Kelly; Robert M Sargis; Lara R Dugas; Yang Dai; Brian T Layden
39417117|j|medRxiv : the preprint server for health sciences
39417117|y|2024
39417117|a|Exposure to toxic metals impacts obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2DM) risk. Yet, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Gut microbiota has been strongly associated with progression of cardiometabolic risk. To determine whether high metal exposures and gut dysbiosis interact to promote metabolic dysregulation and cardiometabolic risk, we assessed relationships between these factors. We analyzed cross-sectional associations between arsenic, lead, mercury, cadmium, and cardiometabolic health markers in 178 randomly selected African-origin adults (52% female, 51% obese, mean age=43.0±6.4 years) from Ghana, South Africa, Seychelles, Jamaica, and USA. Metal levels were dichotomized to high or low at the median level of each metal. We analyzed associations between gut microbiome taxa, metal levels, clinical measures (BMI, fasting blood glucose, and blood pressure) and diagnoses (hypertension, obesity, and diabetes status). High vs. low lead and arsenic exposures had a significant effect on beta diversity (p <0.05). 71 taxa were associated with high lead levels: 30 with elevated BMI, 22 with T2DM, and 23 with elevated fasting blood glucose (p<0.05). 115 taxa were associated with high arsenic levels: 32 with elevated BMI, 33 with T2DM, and 26 with elevated blood glucose (p<0.05). Of the taxa associated with high lead and arsenic exposure and either elevated BMI or fasting blood glucose, porphyrin metabolism was the most enriched metabolic pathway. These data collectively provide the first findings in a human study that the gut microbiome may drive the association between lead and arsenic exposure and obesity and T2DM risk.


39284418|t|Ageing, proteostasis, and the gut: Insights into neurological health and disease.
39284418|w|Mahmood Akbar; Pranoy Toppo; Aamir Nazir
39284418|j|Ageing research reviews
39284418|y|2024
39284418|a|Recent research has illuminated the profound bidirectional communication between the gastrointestinal tract and the brain, furthering our understanding of neurological ailments facilitating possible therapeutic strategies. Technological advancements in high-throughput sequencing and multi-omics have unveiled significant alterations in gut microbiota and their metabolites in various neurological disorders. This review provides a thorough analysis of the role of microbiome-gut-brain axis in neurodegenerative disease pathology, linking it to reduced age-associated proteostasis. We discuss evidences that substantiate the existence of a gut-brain cross talk ranging from early clinical accounts of James Parkinson to Braak's hypothesis. In addition to understanding of microbes, the review particularly entails specific metabolites which are altered in neurodegenerative diseases. The regulatory effects of microbial metabolites on protein clearance mechanisms, proposing their potential therapeutic implications, are also discussed. By integrating this information, we advocate for a combinatory therapeutic strategy that targets early intervention, aiming to restore proteostasis and ameliorate disease progression. This approach not only provides a new perspective on the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases but also highlights innovative strategies to combat the increasing burden of these age-related disorders.


38898687|t|Gut Microbiota Metabolite Messengers in Brain Function and Pathology at a View of Cell Type-Based Receptor and Enzyme Reaction.
38898687|w|Bada Lee; Soo Min Lee; Jae Won Song; Jin Woo Choi
38898687|j|Biomolecules & therapeutics
38898687|y|2024
38898687|a|The human gastrointestinal (GI) tract houses a diverse microbial community, known as the gut microbiome comprising bacteria, viruses, fungi, and protozoa. The gut microbiome plays a crucial role in maintaining the body's equilibrium and has recently been discovered to influence the functioning of the central nervous system (CNS). The communication between the nervous system and the GI tract occurs through a two-way network called the gut-brain axis. The nervous system and the GI tract can modulate each other through activated neuronal cells, the immune system, and metabolites produced by the gut microbiome. Extensive research both in preclinical and clinical realms, has highlighted the complex relationship between the gut and diseases associated with the CNS, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This review aims to delineate receptor and target enzymes linked with gut microbiota metabolites and explore their specific roles within the brain, particularly their impact on CNS-related diseases.


38774094|t|Electroacupuncture blocked motor dysfunction and gut barrier damage by modulating intestinal NLRP3 inflammasome in MPTP-induced Parkinson's disease mice.
38774094|w|Lei Guo; Haiming Hu; Nan Jiang; Huabing Yang; Xiongjie Sun; Hui Xia; Jun Ma; Hongtao Liu
38774094|j|Heliyon
38774094|y|2024
38774094|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder commonly accompanied by gut dysfunction. EA has shown anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects. Here, we aim to explore whether EA can treat Parkinson's disease by restoring the intestinal barrier and modulating NLRP3 inflammasome. We applied 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to establish a PD mouse model and EA at the GV16, LR3, and ST36 for 12 consecutive days. The open-field test results indicated that EA alleviated depression and behavioral defects, upregulated the expressions of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and blocked the accumulation of α-synuclein (α-syn) in the midbrain. Moreover, EA blocked the damage to intestinal tissues of PD mice, indicative of suppressed NLRP3 inflammasome activation and increased gut barrier integrity. Notably, the antibiotic-treated mouse experiment validated that the gut microbiota was critical in alleviating PD dyskinesia and intestinal inflammation by EA. In conclusion, this study suggested that EA exhibited a protective effect against MPTP-induced PD by alleviating behavioral defects, reversing the block of motor dysfunction, and improving the gut barrier by modulating intestinal NLRP3 inflammasome. Above all, this study could provide novel insights into the pathogenesis and therapy of PD.


38447734|t|Melatonin mitigates manganese-induced neural damage via modulation of gut microbiota-metabolism in mice.
38447734|w|Weifeng He; Xueting Wang; Xin Yang; Gaoman Zhang; Junrou Zhang; Li Chen; Piye Niu; Tian Chen
38447734|j|The Science of the total environment
38447734|y|2024
38447734|a|Manganese (Mn), a common environmental and occupational risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD), can cause central nervous system damage and gastrointestinal dysfunction. The melatonin has been shown to effectively improve neural damage and intestinal microbiota disturbances in animal models. This research investigated the mechanism by which exogenous melatonin prevented Mn-induced neurogenesis impairment and neural damage. Here, we established subchronic Mn-exposed mice model and melatonin supplement tests to evaluate the role of melatonin in alleviating Mn-induced neurogenesis impairment. Mn induced neurogenesis impairment and microglia overactivation, behavioral dysfunction, gut microbiota dysbiosis and serum metabolic disorder in mice. All these events were reversed with the melatonin supplement. The behavioral tests revealed that melatonin group showed approximately 30 % restoration of motor activity. According to quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) results, melatonin group showed remarkable restoration of the expression of dopamine neurons and neurogenesis markers, approximately 46.4 % (TH), 68.4 % (DCX in hippocampus) and 48 % (DCX in striatum), respectively. Interestingly, melatonin increased neurogenesis probably via the gut microbiota and metabolism modulation. The correlation analysis of differentially expressed genes associated with hippocampal neurogenesis indicated that Firmicutes-lipid metabolism might mediate the critical repair role of melatonin in neurogenesis in Mn-exposed mice. In conclusion, exogenous melatonin supplementation can promote neurogenesis, and restore neuron loss and neural function in Mn-exposed mice, and the multi-omics results provide new research ideas for future mechanistic studies.


38464323|t|Meta-analysis of the human gut microbiome uncovers shared and distinct microbial signatures between diseases.
38464323|w|Dong-Min Jin; James T Morton; Richard Bonneau
38464323|j|bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology
38464323|y|2024
38464323|a|Microbiome studies have revealed gut microbiota's potential impact on complex diseases. However, many studies often focus on one disease per cohort. We developed a meta-analysis workflow for gut microbiome profiles and analyzed shotgun metagenomic data covering 11 diseases. Using interpretable machine learning and differential abundance analysis, our findings reinforce the generalization of binary classifiers for Crohn's disease (CD) and colorectal cancer (CRC) to hold-out cohorts and highlight the key microbes driving these classifications. We identified high microbial similarity in disease pairs like CD vs ulcerative colitis (UC), CD vs CRC, Parkinson's disease vs type 2 diabetes (T2D), and schizophrenia vs T2D. We also found strong inverse correlations in Alzheimer's disease vs CD and UC. These findings detected by our pipeline provide valuable insights into these diseases.


38499889|t|The role of HLA-DR on plasmacytoid dendritic cells in mediating the effects of Butyrivibrio gut microbiota on Parkinson's disease.
38499889|w|Zihao Wang; Huan Xia; Tingting Feng; Adilai Aibibuli; Mingyang Zhang; Xinling Yang
38499889|j|Neurological sciences : official journal of the Italian Neurological Society and of the Italian Society of Clinical Neurophysiology
38499889|y|2024
38499889|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is viewed as a progressively deteriorating neurodegenerative disorder, the exact etiology of which remains not fully deciphered to this date. The gut microbiota could play a crucial role in PD development by modulating the human immune system. This study aims to explore the relationship between gut microbiota and PD, focusing on how immune characteristics may both directly and indirectly influence their interaction. Utilizing cumulative data from genome-wide association studies (GWAS), our research conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to clarify the association between the gut microbiome and PD. Additionally, by employing a two-step MR approach, we assessed the impact of gut microbiota on PD development via immune characteristics and quantified HLA-DR mediation effect on plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs). We discovered significant associations between PD and microbiota, comprising one class, one order, two families, and two genera. Furthermore, we explored the extent to which HLA-DR on pDCs mediates the effect of Butyrivibrio gut microbiota on PD. Our study emphasizes the complex interactions between the gut microbiota, immune characteristics, and PD. The relationships and intermediary roles identified in our research provide important insights for developing potential therapies that target the gut microbiome to alleviate symptoms in PD patients.


39173756|t|Fecal microbiome transplantation alleviates manganese-induced neurotoxicity by altering the composition and function of the gut microbiota via the cGAS-STING/NLRP3 pathway.
39173756|w|Jingjing Liu; Zhimin Zhang; Shiyin Zhong; Xin Zhang; Jirui Yang; Qiongli Zhou; Diya Wang; Xuhong Chang; Hui Wang
39173756|j|The Science of the total environment
39173756|y|2024
39173756|a|Manganese (Mn) is an environmental pollutant, and overexposure can cause neurodegenerative disorders similar to Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease that are characterized by β-amyloid (Aβ) overexpression, Tau hyperphosphorylation and neuroinflammation. However, the mechanisms of Mn neurotoxicity are not clearly defined. In our study, a knockout mouse model of Mn exposure combined with gut flora-induced neurotoxicity was constructed to investigate the effect of gut flora on Mn neurotoxicity. The results showed that the levels of Tau, p-Tau and Aβ in the hippocampus of C57BL/6 mice were greater than those in the hippocampus of control mice after 5 weeks of continuous exposure to manganese chloride (Mn content of 200 mg/L). Transplanted normal and healthy fecal microbiota from mice significantly downregulated Tau, p-Tau and Aβ expression and ameliorated brain pathology. Moreover, Mn exposure activated the cGAS-STING pathway and altered the cecal microbiota profile, characterized by an increase in Clostridiales, Pseudoflavonifractor, Ligilactobacillus and Desulfovibrio, and a decrease in Anaerotruncus, Eubacterium_ruminantium_group, Fusimonas and Firmicutes, While fecal microbiome transplantation (FMT) treatment inhibited this pathway and restored the microbiota profile. FMT alleviated Mn exposure-induced neurotoxicity by inhibiting activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome triggered by overactivation of the cGAS-STING pathway. Deletion of the cGAS and STING genes and FMT altered the gut microbiota composition and its predictive function. Phenotypic prediction revealed that FMT markedly decreased the abundances of anaerobic and stress-tolerant bacteria and significantly increased the abundances of facultative anaerobic bacteria and biofilm-forming bacteria after blocking the cGAS-STING pathway compared to the Mn-exposed group. FMT from normal and healthy mice ameliorated the neurotoxicity of Mn exposure, possibly through alterations in the composition and function of the microbiome associated with the cGAS-STING/NLRP3 pathway. This study provides a prospective direction for future research on the mechanism of Mn neurotoxicity.


39043489|t|Evolving insights into erythrocytes in synucleinopathies.
39043489|w|Ying Yang; Xiaoqian Nie; Yajie Wang; Jie Sun; Xiaofei Gao; Jing Zhang
39043489|j|Trends in neurosciences
39043489|y|2024
39043489|a|Synucleinopathies, including Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple system atrophy (MSA), and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), are characterized by neuronal loss accompanied by α-synuclein (α-syn) accumulation in the brain. While research conventionally focused on brain pathology, there is growing interest in peripheral alterations. Erythrocytes, which are rich in α-syn, have emerged as a compelling site for synucleinopathies-related alterations. Erythrocyte-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs), containing pathological α-syn species, can traverse the blood-brain barrier (BBB) under certain conditions and the gastrointestinal tract, where α-syn and gut microbiota interact extensively. This review explores the accumulating evidence of erythrocyte involvement in synucleinopathies, as well as their potential in disease pathogenesis and diagnosis. Given their unique properties, erythrocytes and erythrocyte-derived EVs may also serve as an ideal therapeutic platform for treating synucleinopathies and beyond.


38399728|t|Changes in Bacterial Gut Composition in Parkinson's Disease and Their Metabolic Contribution to Disease Development: A Gut Community Reconstruction Approach.
38399728|w|Johanna Forero-Rodríguez; Johannes Zimmermann; Jan Taubenheim; Natalia Arias-Rodríguez; Juan David Caicedo-Narvaez; Lena Best; Cindy V Mendieta; Julieth López-Castiblanco; Laura Alejandra Gómez-Muñoz; Janneth Gonzalez-Santos; Humberto Arboleda; William Fernandez; Christoph Kaleta; Andrés Pinzón
38399728|j|Microorganisms
38399728|y|2024
38399728|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic and progressive neurodegenerative disease with the major symptoms comprising loss of movement coordination (motor dysfunction) and non-motor dysfunction, including gastrointestinal symptoms. Alterations in the gut microbiota composition have been reported in PD patients vs. controls. However, it is still unclear how these compositional changes contribute to disease etiology and progression. Furthermore, most of the available studies have focused on European, Asian, and North American cohorts, but the microbiomes of PD patients in Latin America have not been characterized. To address this problem, we obtained fecal samples from Colombian participants (<i>n</i> = 25 controls, <i>n</i> = 25 PD idiopathic cases) to characterize the taxonomical community changes during disease via 16S rRNA gene sequencing. An analysis of differential composition, diversity, and personalized computational modeling was carried out, given the fecal bacterial composition and diet of each participant. We found three metabolites that differed in dietary habits between PD patients and controls: carbohydrates, trans fatty acids, and potassium. We identified six genera that changed significantly in their relative abundance between PD patients and controls, belonging to the families <i>Lachnospiraceae</i>, <i>Lactobacillaceae</i>, <i>Verrucomicrobioaceae</i>, <i>Peptostreptococcaceae</i>, and <i>Streptococcaceae</i>. Furthermore, personalized metabolic modeling of the gut microbiome revealed changes in the predicted production of seven metabolites (Indole, tryptophan, fructose, phenylacetic acid, myristic acid, 3-Methyl-2-oxovaleric acid, and N-Acetylneuraminic acid). These metabolites are associated with the metabolism of aromatic amino acids and their consumption in the diet. Therefore, this research suggests that each individual's diet and intestinal composition could affect host metabolism. Furthermore, these findings open the door to the study of microbiome-host interactions and allow us to contribute to personalized medicine.


39155987|t|HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder: key implications of the microbiota-gut-brain axis.
39155987|w|Aizhen Hu; Silvere D Zaongo; Vijay Harypursat; Xin Wang; Jing Ouyang; Yaokai Chen
39155987|j|Frontiers in microbiology
39155987|y|2024
39155987|a|HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) is now recognized to be relatively common in people living with HIV (PLWH), and remains a common cause of cognitive impairment. Unfortunately, the fundamental pathogenic processes underlying this specific outcome of HIV infection have not as yet been fully elucidated. With increased interest in research related to the microbiota-gut-brain axis, the gut-brain axis has been shown to play critical roles in regulating central nervous system disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. PLWH are characterized by a particular affliction, referred to as gut-associated dysbiosis syndrome, which provokes an alteration in microbial composition and diversity, and of their associated metabolite composition within the gut. Interestingly, the gut microbiota has also been recognized as a key element, which both positively and negatively influences human brain health, including the functioning and development of the central nervous system (CNS). In this review, based on published evidence, we critically discuss the relevant interactions between the microbiota-gut-brain axis and the pathogenesis of HAND in the context of HIV infection. It is likely that HAND manifestation in PLWH mainly results from (i) gut-associated dysbiosis syndrome and a leaky gut on the one hand and (ii) inflammation on the other hand. In other words, the preceding features of HIV infection negatively alter the composition of the gut microbiota (microbes and their associated metabolites) and promote proinflammatory immune responses which singularly or in tandem damage neurons and/or induce inadequate neuronal signaling. Thus, HAND is fairly prevalent in PLWH. This work aims to demonstrate that in the quest to prevent and possibly treat HAND, the gut microbiota may ultimately represent a therapeutically targetable "host factor."


39266892|t|The role of gut-derived short-chain fatty acids in Parkinson's disease.
39266892|w|Mohamed J Saadh; Anfal Nabeel Mustafa; Mohammed Ahmed Mustafa; Renuka Jyothi S; Hasan Khalid Dabis; G V Siva Prasad; Imad Jassim Mohammad; Ahmed Adnan; Ameer Hassan Idan
39266892|j|Neurogenetics
39266892|y|2024
39266892|a|The emerging function of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) in Parkinson's disease (PD) has been investigated in this article. SCFAs, which are generated via the fermentation of dietary fiber by gut microbiota, have been associated with dysfunction of the gut-brain axis and, neuroinflammation. These processes are integral to the development of PD. This article examines the potential therapeutic implications of SCFAs in the management of PD, encompassing their capacity to modulate gastrointestinal permeability, neuroinflammation, and neuronal survival, by conducting an extensive literature review. As a whole, this article emphasizes the potential therapeutic utility of SCFAs as targets for the management and treatment of PD.


38287859|t|The Neuroprotective Effects of Electroacupuncture on Parkinson's Disease and the Underlying Molecular Mechanisms.
38287859|w|Qiuqin Han; Peiqing Chen; Xiaorong Chen; Lijuan Wang; Renyan Huang; Wenhui Li; Guobin Liu
38287859|j|Journal of integrative neuroscience
38287859|y|2024
38287859|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease whose main pathological features are the degeneration of dopamine neurons and deposition of α-synuclein in neurons. At present, the most important treatment strategy for PD is drugs, and one of the most used drugs is levodopa. However, this therapy shows many problems, such as tolerance and long-term effects, so other treatment strategies need to be explored. As a traditional Chinese medicine treatment method with effective and few side effects, electroacupuncture is considered a non-drug therapy. It serves as a novel, promising therapeutic approach for the treatment of PD. In this review, the application and the effects of electroacupuncture on PD have been described. Besides, the underlying molecular mechanisms of electroacupuncture on PD that contribute to protecting dopaminergic neurons and reducing α-synuclein levels have been illustrated, including ① anti-oxidant stress response, ② anti-neuroinflammatory response, ③ up-regulation of neurotrophic factors and reduction of nerve cell apoptosis, ④ down-regulation of endoplasmic reticulum stress and improvement of mitochondrial function, ⑤ improvement of the function of the ubiquitin-proteasome system, ⑥ anti-excitatory toxicity response, ⑦ activation of autophagy, and ⑧ modulation of gut microbiota. Achieving a better understanding of the neuroprotective effects of electroacupuncture on PD will provide a theoretical basis and facilitate the application of electroacupuncture on PD.


39431278|t|The brain-gut axis: communication mechanisms and the role of the microbiome as a neuroprotective factor in the development of neurodegenerative diseases: A literature overview.
39431278|w|Mgr Natalia Białoń; Dr Hab N O Zdr Dariusz Górka; Mgr Mikołaj Górka
39431278|j|AIMS neuroscience
39431278|y|2024
39431278|a|The study of the brain-gut axis and its impact on cognitive function and in the development of neurodegenerative diseases is a very timely topic of interest to researchers. This review summarizes information on the basic mechanisms of gut-brain communication. We then discuss the roles of the gut microbiome as a neuroprotective factor in neurodegeneration. The gut microbiota is extremely important in maintaining the body's homeostasis, shaping the human immune system and the proper functioning of the brain. The intestinal microflora affects the processes of neuroplasticity, synaptogenesis, and neuronal regeneration. This review aims to explain changes in the composition of the bacterial population of the intestinal microflora among patients with Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis. Abnormalities in gut microflora composition are also noted in stress, depression, or autism spectrum development. New observations on psychobiotic supplementation in alleviating the symptoms of neurodegenerative diseases are also presented.


39408276|t|Oral Trehalose Intake Modulates the Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis and Is Neuroprotective in a Synucleinopathy Mouse Model.
39408276|w|Solène Pradeloux; Katherine Coulombe; Alexandre Jules Kennang Ouamba; Amandine Isenbrandt; Frédéric Calon; Denis Roy; Denis Soulet
39408276|j|Nutrients
39408276|y|2024
39408276|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease affecting dopaminergic neurons in the nigrostriatal and gastrointestinal tracts, causing both motor and non-motor symptoms. This study examined the neuroprotective effects of trehalose. This sugar is confined in the gut due to the absence of transporters, so we hypothesized that trehalose might exert neuroprotective effects on PD through its action on the gut microbiota. We used a transgenic mouse model of PD (PrP-A53T G2-3) overexpressing human α-synuclein and developing GI dysfunctions. Mice were given water with trehalose, maltose, or sucrose (2% <i>w</i>/<i>v</i>) for 6.5 m. Trehalose administration prevented a reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the substantia nigra (-25%), striatum (-38%), and gut (-18%) in PrP-A53T mice. It also modulated the gut microbiota, reducing the loss of diversity seen in PrP-A53T mice and promoting bacteria negatively correlated with PD in patients. Additionally, trehalose treatment increased the intestinal secretion of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) by 29%. Maltose and sucrose, which break down into glucose, did not show neuroprotective effects, suggesting glucose is not involved in trehalose-mediated neuroprotection. Since trehalose is unlikely to cross the intestinal barrier at the given dose, the results suggest its effects are mediated indirectly through the gut microbiota and GLP-1.


38770370|t|Iron toxicity, ferroptosis and microbiota in Parkinson's disease: Implications for novel targets.
38770370|w|Fernanda Vidal Carvalho; Harold E Landis; Bruk Getachew; Victor Diogenes Amaral Silva; Paulo R Ribeiro; Michael Aschner; Yousef Tizabi
38770370|j|Advances in neurotoxicology
38770370|y|2024
38770370|a|Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by loss of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Iron (Fe)-dependent programmed cell death known as ferroptosis, plays a crucial role in the etiology and progression of PD. Since SNpc is particularly vulnerable to Fe toxicity, a central role for ferroptosis in the etiology and progression of PD is envisioned. Ferroptosis, characterized by reactive oxygen species (ROS)-dependent accumulation of lipid peroxides, is tightly regulated by a variety of intracellular metabolic processes. Moreover, the recently characterized bi-directional interactions between ferroptosis and the gut microbiota, not only provides another window into the mechanistic underpinnings of PD but could also suggest novel interventions in this devastating disease. Here, following a brief discussion of PD, we focus on how our expanding knowledge of Fe-induced ferroptosis and its interaction with the gut microbiota may contribute to the pathophysiology of PD and how this knowledge may be exploited to provide novel interventions in PD.


38311217|t|Supplementation of probiotic Bifidobacterium breve Bif11 reverses neurobehavioural deficits, inflammatory changes and oxidative stress in Parkinson's disease model.
38311217|w|Sonali Valvaikar; Bhupesh Vaidya; Shikha Sharma; Mahendra Bishnoi; Kanthi Kiran Kondepudi; Shyam S Sharma
38311217|j|Neurochemistry international
38311217|y|2024
38311217|a|Human gut microbiota are thought to affect different physiological processes in the body, including brain functions. Gut dysbiosis has been linked to the progression of Parkinson's disease (PD) and thus, restoring the healthy gut microbiota with supplementation of putative probiotic strains can confer some benefits in PD. In the current study, we explored the neuroprotective potential of Bifidobacterium breve Bif11 supplementation in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) treated female Sprague Dawley rats. This study investigated the behavioural, molecular and biochemical parameters in the MPTP rat model. A pharmacological intervention of Bif11 at doses of 1 × 10<sup>10</sup> CFU and 2 × 10<sup>10</sup> CFU for 21 days was found to attenuate the cognitive and motor changes in the MPTP rat model. Furthermore, it also increased the tyrosine hydroxylase levels, reduced pro-inflammatory markers and decreased oxidative and nitrosative stress in the mid brain of MPTP-lesioned rats. Bif11 supplementation even restored the levels of short-chain fatty acids and decreased intestinal epithelial permeability in MPTP-induced PD model rats. In summary, these findings demonstrate that B. breve Bif11 has the potential to ameliorate symptoms of PD. However, this therapy needs to be further investigated with in-depth mechanistic insights in the future for the treatment of PD.


38754721|t|Exploring Therapeutic Potential of Phytoconstituents as a Gut Microbiota Modulator in the Management of Neurological and Psychological Disorders.
38754721|w|Prarit Chandel; Komal Thapa; Neha Kanojia; Lata Rani; Thakur Gurjeet Singh; Pulkit Rohilla
38754721|j|Neuroscience
38754721|y|2024
38754721|a|The functioning of the brain and its impact on behavior, emotions, and cognition can be affected by both neurological and psychiatric disorders that impose a significant burden on global health. Phytochemicals are helpful in the treatment of several neurological and psychological disorders, including anxiety, depression, Huntington's disease (HD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and autism spectrum disorder (ASD), because they have symptomatic benefits with few adverse reactions. Changes in gut microbiota have been associated with many neurological and psychiatric conditions. This review focuses on the potential efficacy of phytochemicals such as flavonoids, terpenoids, and polyphenols in regulating gut flora and providing symptomatic relief for a range of neurological and psychological conditions. Evidence-based research has shown the medicinal potentials of these phytochemicals, but additional study is required to determine whether altering gut microbiota might slow the advancement of neurological and psychological problems.


38554664|t|Association of intestinal inflammation and permeability markers with clinical manifestations of Parkinson's disease.
38554664|w|Ines Rajkovaca Latic; Zvonimir Popovic; Katica Mijatovic; Ines Sahinovic; Vlasta Pekic; Domagoj Vucic; Vesna Cosic; Blazenka Miskic; Svetlana Tomic
38554664|j|Parkinsonism & related disorders
38554664|y|2024
38554664|a|Intestinal inflammation and gut microbiota dysbiosis can stimulate degeneration of dopaminergic neurons and development of Parkinson's disease (PD) via the gut-brain axis in certain patients. In a case-control study, fecal markers of intestinal inflammation and permeability were measured using the ELISA method in PD patients and healthy controls. Motor and nonmotor symptoms were assessed using the Movement Disorder Society (MDS) Unified PD Rating Scale, Hoehn & Yahr scale, MDS Non-Motor Symptom Scale, Scales for Outcomes in PD - Autonomic Dysfunction, PD Sleep Scale - 2, Montreal Cognitive Assessment, Beck Anxiety Inventory, and Beck Depression Inventory-II. A correlation was established between the intestinal inflammation and permeability markers and PD symptoms. Higher levels of beta-defensin 2, zonulin and lactoferrin were recorded in PD patients compared to controls. Calprotectin and secretory immunoglobulin A showed no significant differences. Regression analysis indicated the roles of beta-defensin 2 and lactoferrin in predicting PD likelihood. Calprotectin yielded positive correlations with disease duration, depression, motor fluctuations, and gastrointestinal symptoms; beta defensin 2 with thermoregulation; and secretory immunoglobulin A with depression. Secretory immunoglobulin A showed negative correlation with age and age at disease onset, while zonulin showed negative correlation with the MDS Unified PD Rating Scale total score. Fecal markers differed in PD patients compared to controls and correlated with age, disease duration, and some nonmotor symptoms. Future studies should identify the subgroups of PD patients that are likely to develop intestinal inflammation.


38561921|t|Idiopathic Rapid Eye Movement Sleep Behavior Disorder (iRBD) Shares Similar Fecal Short-Chain Fatty Acid Alterations with Multiple System Atrophy (MSA) and Parkinson's Disease (PD).
38561921|w|Juanjuan Du; Pingchen Zhang; Yuyan Tan; Chao Gao; Jin Liu; Maoxin Huang; Hongxia Li; Xin Shen; Pei Huang; Shengdi Chen
38561921|j|Movement disorders : official journal of the Movement Disorder Society
38561921|y|2024
38561921|a|Idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (iRBD) is considered as a prodromal stage of synucleinopathies. Fecal short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) changes in iRBD and the relationships with synucleinopathies have never been investigated. To investigate fecal SCFA changes among iRBD, multiple system atrophy (MSA), and Parkinson's disease (PD), and evaluate their relationships. Fecal SCFAs and gut microbiota were measured in 29 iRBD, 42 MSA, 40 PD, and 35 normal controls (NC) using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Compared with NC, fecal SCFA levels (propionic, acetic, and butyric acid) were lower in iRBD, MSA, and PD. Combinations of these SCFAs could differentiate NC from iRBD (AUC 0.809), MSA (AUC 0.794), and PD (AUC 0.701). Decreased fecal SCFAs were associated with the common reducing SCFA-producing gut microbiota in iRBD, MSA, and PD. iRBD shares similar fecal SCFA alterations with MSA and PD, and the combination of these SCFAs might be a potential synucleinopathies-related biomarker. © 2024 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.


39062985|t|Exploring Fecal Microbiota Transplantation for Modulating Inflammation in Parkinson's Disease: A Review of Inflammatory Markers and Potential Effects.
39062985|w|Karol Sadowski; Weronika Zając; Łukasz Milanowski; Dariusz Koziorowski; Monika Figura
39062985|j|International journal of molecular sciences
39062985|y|2024
39062985|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder characterized by numerous motor and non-motor symptoms. Recent data highlight a potential interplay between the gut microbiota and the pathophysiology of PD. The degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in PD leads to motor symptoms (tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia), with antecedent gastrointestinal manifestations, most notably constipation. Consequently, the gut emerges as a plausible modulator in the neurodegenerative progression of PD. Key molecular changes in PD are discussed in the context of the gut-brain axis. Evidence suggests that the alterations in the gut microbiota composition may contribute to gastroenteric inflammation and influence PD symptoms. Disturbances in the levels of inflammatory markers, including tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF α), interleukin -1β (IL-1β), and interleukin-6 (IL-6), have been observed in PD patients. These implicate the involvement of systemic inflammation in disease pathology. Fecal microbiota transplantation emerges as a potential therapeutic strategy for PD. It may mitigate inflammation by restoring gut homeostasis. Preclinical studies in animal models and initial clinical trials have shown promising results. Overall, understanding the interplay between inflammation, the gut microbiota, and PD pathology provides valuable insights into potential therapeutic interventions. This review presents recent data about the bidirectional communication between the gut microbiome and the brain in PD, specifically focusing on the involvement of inflammatory biomarkers.


38490348|t|Dietary polyphenols represent a phytotherapeutic alternative for gut dysbiosis associated neurodegeneration: A systematic review.
38490348|w|Amrita Chatterjee; Satish Kumar; Suparna Roy Sarkar; Ritabrata Halder; Rashmi Kumari; Sugato Banerjee; Biswatrish Sarkar
38490348|j|The Journal of nutritional biochemistry
38490348|y|2024
38490348|a|Globally, neurodegeneration and cerebrovascular disease are common and growing causes of morbidity and mortality. Pathophysiology of this group of diseases encompasses various factors from oxidative stress to gut microbial dysbiosis. The study of the etiology and mechanisms of oxidative stress as well as gut dysbiosis-induced neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, autism spectrum disorder, and Huntington's disease has recently received a lot of attention. Numerous studies lend credence to the notion that changes in the intestinal microbiota and enteric neuroimmune system have an impact on the initiation and severity of these diseases. The prebiotic role of polyphenols can influence the makeup of the gut microbiota in neurodegenerative disorders by modulating intracellular signalling pathways. Metabolites of polyphenols function directly as neurotransmitters by crossing the blood-brain barrier or indirectly via influencing the cerebrovascular system. This assessment aims to bring forth an interlink between the consumption of polyphenols biotransformed by gut microbiota which in turn modulate the gut microbial diversity and biochemical changes in the brain. This systematic review will further augment research towards the association of dietary polyphenols in the management of gut dysbiosis-associated neurodegenerative diseases.


39191336|t|Metformin: From diabetes to cancer to prolongation of life.
39191336|w|Cesare R Sirtori; Sofia Castiglione; Chiara Pavanello
39191336|j|Pharmacological research
39191336|y|2024
39191336|a|The metformin molecule dates back to over a century, but its clinical use started in the '50s. Since then, its use in diabetics has grown constantly, with over 150 million users today. The therapeutic profile also expanded, with improved understanding of novel mechanisms. Metformin has a major activity on insulin resistance, by acting on the insulin receptors and mitochondria, most likely by activation of the adenosine monophosphate-activated kinase. These and associated mechanisms lead to significant lipid lowering and body weight loss. An anti-cancer action has come up in recent years, with mechanisms partly dependent on the mitochondrial activity and also on phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase resistance occurring in some malignant tumors. The potential of metformin to raise life-length is the object of large ongoing studies and of several basic and clinical investigations. The present review article will attempt to investigate the basic mechanisms behind these diverse activities and the potential clinical benefits. Metformin may act on transcriptional activity by histone modification, DNA methylation and miRNAs. An activity on age-associated inflammation (inflammaging) may occur via activation of the nuclear factor erythroid 2 related factor and changes in gut microbiota. A senolytic activity, leading to reduction of cells with the senescent associated secretory phenotype, may be crucial in lifespan prolongation as well as in ancillary properties in age-associated diseases, such as Parkinson's disease. Telomere prolongation may be related to the activity on mitochondrial respiratory factor 1 and on peroxisome gamma proliferator coactivator 1-alpha. Very recent observations on the potential to act on the most severe neurological disorders, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia, have raised considerable hope.


38939650|t|Modulatory Effects of Phytochemicals on Gut-Brain Axis: Therapeutic Implication.
38939650|w|Khojasteh Rahimi Jaberi; Vahab Alamdari-Palangi; Amir Savardashtaki; Pooya Vatankhah; Tannaz Jamialahmadi; Amir Tajbakhsh; Amirhossein Sahebkar
38939650|j|Current developments in nutrition
38939650|y|2024
38939650|a|This article explores the potential therapeutic implications of phytochemicals on the gut-brain axis (GBA), which serves as a communication network between the central nervous system and the enteric nervous system. Phytochemicals, which are compounds derived from plants, have been shown to interact with the gut microbiota, immune system, and neurotransmitter systems, thereby influencing brain function. Phytochemicals such as polyphenols, carotenoids, flavonoids, and terpenoids have been identified as having potential therapeutic implications for various neurological disorders. The GBA plays a critical role in the development and progression of various neurological disorders, including Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, depression, anxiety, and autism spectrum disorders. Dysbiosis, or an imbalance in gut microbiota composition, has been associated with a range of neurological disorders, suggesting that modulating the gut microbiota may have potential therapeutic implications for these conditions. Although these findings are promising, further research is needed to elucidate the optimal use of phytochemicals in neurological disorder treatment, as well as their potential interactions with other medications. The literature review search was conducted using predefined search terms such as phytochemicals, gut-brain axis, neurodegenerative, and Parkinson in PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane library.


38008941|t|Intestinal Barrier Function and Neurodegenerative Disease.
38008941|w|Shijing Wu; Liangfang Yang; Yiwei Fu; Zhimin Liao; De Cai; Zhou Liu
38008941|j|CNS & neurological disorders drug targets
38008941|y|2024
38008941|a|Neurodegenerative diseases are caused by the loss of neurons and/or their myelin sheaths, which deteriorate over time and become dysfunctional. Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis are among the most prominent neurodegenerative diseases that affect millions of older adults worldwide. Despite extensive research over several decades, controversies still surround the etiology of neurodegenerative diseases, and many of them remain incurable. Meanwhile, an increasing number of new mechanistic studies related to the microbiota-gut-brain axis have emerged, among which the relationship between the function of the intestinal barrier and neurodegenerative diseases has received widespread attention. As one of the first lines of defense between the body and the external environment, the impaired function of the intestinal barrier is closely related to the development of neurodegenerative pathologies. Among them, the microbiota-gut-brain axis disorder characterized by intestinal barrier disruption mainly includes impaired function of the intestinal microbial barrier, chemical barrier, mechanical barrier, and immune barrier. This review focuses on the structure and molecular mechanisms of the various layers of the intestinal barrier as well as their relationship with neurodegenerative lesions. In recent years, intestinal barrier repair therapies have provided new ideas for the studied disease treatment modalities. We believe that a better understanding of the role of the intestinal barrier in neurodegenerative diseases would provide new insights for the development of viable therapeutic strategies for patients.


38261717|t|Gastrointestinal dysmotility in rodent models of Parkinson's disease.
38261717|w|Carolina Pellegrini; R Alberto Travagli
38261717|j|American journal of physiology. Gastrointestinal and liver physiology
38261717|y|2024
38261717|a|Multiple studies describe prodromal, nonmotor dysfunctions that affect the quality of life of patients who subsequently develop Parkinson's disease (PD). These prodromal dysfunctions comprise a wide array of autonomic issues, including severe gastrointestinal (GI) motility disorders such as dysphagia, delayed gastric emptying, and chronic constipation. Indeed, strong evidence from studies in humans and animal models suggests that the GI tract and its neural, mainly vagal, connection to the central nervous system (CNS) could have a major role in the etiology of PD. In fact, misfolded α-synuclein aggregates that form Lewy bodies and neurites, i.e., the histological hallmarks of PD, are detected in the enteric nervous system (ENS) before clinical diagnosis of PD. The aim of the present review is to provide novel insights into the pathogenesis of GI dysmotility in PD, focusing our attention on functional, neurochemical, and molecular alterations in animal models.


39175504|t|The aryl hydrocarbon receptor pathway: a linking bridge between the gut microbiome and neurodegenerative diseases.
39175504|w|Lorena Coretti; Elisabetta Buommino; Francesca Lembo
39175504|j|Frontiers in cellular neuroscience
39175504|y|2024
39175504|a|The Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a cytosolic receptor and ligand-activated transcription factor widely expressed across various cell types in the body. Its signaling is vital for host responses at barrier sites, regulating epithelial renewal, barrier integrity, and the activities of several types of immune cells. This makes AHR essential for various cellular responses during aging, especially those governing inflammation and immunity. In this review, we provided an overview of the mechanisms by which the AHR mediates inflammatory response at gut and brain level through signals from intestinal microbes. The age-related reduction of gut microbiota functions is perceived as a trigger of aberrant immune responses linking gut and brain inflammation to neurodegeneration. Thus, we explored gut microbiome impact on the nature and availability of AHR ligands and outcomes for several signaling pathways involved in neurodegenerative diseases and age-associated decline of brain functions, with an insight on Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, the most common neurodegenerative diseases in the elderly. Specifically, we focused on microbial tryptophan catabolism responsible for the production of several AHR ligands. Perspectives for the development of microbiota-based interventions targeting AHR activity are presented for a healthy aging.


38227477|t|Integrated multi-omics profiling highlights the benefits of resveratrol hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin inclusion complex for A53T transgenic mice through the microbiota-gut-brain axis.
38227477|w|Xiaodong Sun; Shenglan Feng; Bingqing Qin; Junjie Ye; Lixia Xie; Jianjun Gui; Ming Sang
38227477|j|Food & function
38227477|y|2024
38227477|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurological disorder characterized by motor and gastrointestinal dysfunctions. Resveratrol is a potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory phytoalexin known for its health-promoting benefits. However, little is known about its potential in treating PD by modulating the microbial gut-brain axis, and its clinical application has been limited due to poor water solubility, rapid metabolism, and limited systemic bioavailability. Our study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of RHSD, a resveratrol-cyclodextrin inclusion complex, in treating PD through the gut-brain axis in human SNCA-transgenic (A53T) mice PD models. Building on our previous study, we prepared RHSD and compared its efficacy with uncoated resveratrol for PD treatment. The study results demonstrated that RHSD exhibited several advantages in improving motor function, alleviating cognitive impairment, restoring intestinal barrier function, and inhibiting neuropathy. Subsequently, a series of analyses, including fecal microbiota metagenomic sequencing, non-target metabolic assays, host transcriptome sequencing, and integrative analysis were performed to reveal the potential therapeutic pathways of RHSD in A53T mice. The metagenomic sequencing results indicated a significant increase in the levels of <i>Lactobacillus murinus</i>, <i>Lactobacillus reuteri</i>, <i>Enterorhabduscaecimuris</i>, <i>Lactobacillus taiwanensis</i>, and <i>Lactobacillus animals</i> following RHSD administration. Furthermore, metabolomics profiling showed that the levels of gut microbiome metabolites were reversed after RHSD treatment, and differential metabolites were significantly correlated with motor function and intestinal function in PD mice. The integrated analysis of microbial metabolites and host transcriptomics suggested that abnormal amino acid metabolism, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation in the PD model were associated with the diffusion of abnormal metabolites. This study illustrates the profound impact of RHSD administration on rectifying gut microbiota dysbiosis and improving the A53T mouse model. Notably, we observed significant alterations in the proliferation and metabolism of multiple probiotic strains of Lactobacillus. Furthermore, our research supports the hypothesis that microbiota-related metabolites may regulate the transcription of host genes, including dopamine receptors and calcium stabilization. Consequently, our findings underscore the potential of RHSD as a promising therapeutic candidate for the treatment of PD through the modulation of several signaling pathways within the microbiota-gut-brain axis.


38610012|t|Peripheral extracellular vesicles in neurodegeneration: pathogenic influencers and therapeutic vehicles.
38610012|w|Xixi Liu; Lu Shen; Meidan Wan; Hui Xie; Zhenxing Wang
38610012|j|Journal of nanobiotechnology
38610012|y|2024
38610012|a|Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis epitomize a class of insidious and relentless neurological conditions that are difficult to cure. Conventional therapeutic regimens often fail due to the late onset of symptoms, which occurs well after irreversible neurodegeneration has begun. The integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) further impedes efficacious drug delivery to the central nervous system, presenting a formidable challenge in the pharmacological treatment of NDDs. Recent scientific inquiries have shifted focus toward the peripheral biological systems, investigating their influence on central neuropathology through the lens of extracellular vesicles (EVs). These vesicles, distinguished by their ability to breach the BBB, are emerging as dual operatives in the context of NDDs, both as conveyors of pathogenic entities and as prospective vectors for therapeutic agents. This review critically summarizes the burgeoning evidence on the role of extracerebral EVs, particularly those originating from bone, adipose tissue, and gut microbiota, in modulating brain pathophysiology. It underscores the duplicity potential of peripheral EVs as modulators of disease progression and suggests their potential as novel vehicles for targeted therapeutic delivery, positing a transformative impact on the future landscape of NDD treatment strategies. Search strategy A comprehensive literature search was conducted using PubMed, Web of Science, and Scopus from January 2000 to December 2023. The search combined the following terms using Boolean operators: "neurodegenerative disease" OR "Alzheimer's disease" OR "Parkinson's disease" OR "Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis" AND "extracellular vesicles" OR "exosomes" OR "outer membrane vesicles" AND "drug delivery systems" AND "blood-brain barrier". MeSH terms were employed when searching PubMed to refine the results. Studies were included if they were published in English, involved human subjects, and focused on the peripheral origins of EVs, specifically from bone, adipose tissue, and gut microbiota, and their association with related diseases such as osteoporosis, metabolic syndrome, and gut dysbiosis. Articles were excluded if they did not address the role of EVs in the context of NDDs or did not discuss therapeutic applications. The titles and abstracts of retrieved articles were screened using a dual-review process to ensure relevance and accuracy. The reference lists of selected articles were also examined to identify additional relevant studies.


38786584|t|Optimization of the Preparation Process of Glucuronomannan Oligosaccharides and Their Effects on the Gut Microbiota in MPTP-Induced PD Model Mice.
38786584|w|Baoxiang Wang; Lihua Geng; Jing Wang; Yuxi Wei; Changhui Yan; Ning Wu; Yang Yue; Quanbin Zhang
38786584|j|Marine drugs
38786584|y|2024
38786584|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, and accumulating evidence suggests a link between dysbiosis of the gut microbiota and the onset and progression of PD. In our previous investigations, we discovered that intraperitoneal administration of glucuronomannan oligosaccharides (GMn) derived from <i>Saccharina japonica</i> exhibited neuroprotective effects in a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD mouse model. However, the complicated preparation process, difficulties in isolation, and remarkably low yield have constrained further exploration of GMn. In this study, we optimized the degradation conditions in the preparation process of GMn through orthogonal experiments. Subsequently, an MPTP-induced PD model was established, followed by oral administration of GMn. Through a stepwise optimization, we successfully increased the yield of GMn, separated from crude fucoidan, from 1~2/10,000 to 4~8/1000 and indicated the effects on the amelioration of MPTP-induced motor deficits, preservation of dopamine neurons, and elevation in striatal neurotransmitter levels. Importantly, GMn mitigated gut microbiota dysbiosis induced by MPTP in mice. In particular, GM2 significantly reduced the levels of <i>Akkermansia</i>, Verrucomicrobiota, and <i>Lactobacillus</i>, while promoting the abundance of <i>Roseburia</i> and <i>Prevotella</i> compared to the model group. These findings suggest that GM2 can potentially suppress PD by modulating the gut microbiota, providing a foundation for the development of a novel and effective anti-PD marine drug.


38316462|t|Stability of gut microbiome after COVID-19 vaccination in healthy and immuno-compromised individuals.
38316462|w|Rebecca H Boston; Rui Guan; Lajos Kalmar; Sina Beier; Emily C Horner; Nonantzin Beristain-Covarrubias; Juan Carlos Yam-Puc; Pehuén Pereyra Gerber; Luisa Faria; Anna Kuroshchenkova; Anna E Lindell; Sonja Blasche; Andrea Correa-Noguera; Anne Elmer; Caroline Saunders; Areti Bermperi; Sherly Jose; Nathalie Kingston; Sofia Grigoriadou; Emily Staples; Matthew S Buckland; Sara Lear; Nicholas J Matheson; Vladimir Benes; Christine Parkinson; James Ed Thaventhiran; Kiran R Patil
38316462|j|Life science alliance
38316462|y|2024
38316462|a|Bidirectional interactions between the immune system and the gut microbiota are key contributors to various physiological functions. Immune-associated diseases such as cancer and autoimmunity, and efficacy of immunomodulatory therapies, have been linked to microbiome variation. Although COVID-19 infection has been shown to cause microbial dysbiosis, it remains understudied whether the inflammatory response associated with vaccination also impacts the microbiota. Here, we investigate the temporal impact of COVID-19 vaccination on the gut microbiome in healthy and immuno-compromised individuals; the latter included patients with primary immunodeficiency and cancer patients on immunomodulating therapies. We find that the gut microbiome remained remarkably stable post-vaccination irrespective of diverse immune status, vaccine response, and microbial composition spanned by the cohort. The stability is evident at all evaluated levels including diversity, phylum, species, and functional capacity. Our results indicate the resilience of the gut microbiome to host immune changes triggered by COVID-19 vaccination and suggest minimal, if any, impact on microbiome-mediated processes. These findings encourage vaccine acceptance, particularly when contrasted with the significant microbiome shifts observed during COVID-19 infection.


39189385|t|Supplementation with <i>Bifidobacterium animalis</i> subsp. <i>lactis</i> MH-022 for remission of motor impairments in a 6-OHDA-induced Parkinson's disease rat model by reducing inflammation, reshaping the gut microbiome, and fostering specific microbial taxa.
39189385|w|Shu-Ping Tsao; Tu-Hsueh Yeh; Ya-Tin Lin; Chun-Hsu Pan; Yuan-Kun Lee; Chieh-Hsi Wu; Hui-Yu Huang
39189385|j|Food & function
39189385|y|2024
39189385|a|Inflammation significantly influences the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD), which is potentially intensified by associated gut dysbiosis. The therapeutic potential of probiotics, due to their antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and gut microbiota modulatory properties, is explored herein as a means to improve gut health and influence the gut-brain-microbiota axis in the context of PD. In this study, we investigated the role and possible mechanism of <i>Bifidobacterium animalis</i> subsp. <i>lactis</i> MH-022 (<i>B. lactis</i> MH-022) supplementation in a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced rat model of PD. Findings demonstrated that <i>B. lactis</i> MH-022 supplementation markedly ameliorated motor deficits, preserved dopaminergic neurons, enhanced the antioxidant capacity, and mitigated inflammation through restoring mitochondrial function. Furthermore, <i>B. lactis</i> MH-022 supplementation significantly altered the gut microbiota composition, augmenting the production of short-chain fatty acids and promoting the proliferation of beneficial bacterial taxa, thereby reinforcing their anti-inflammatory properties. Correlation analyses established strong associations between specific bacterial taxa and improvements in motor function, antioxidant levels, and reductions in inflammation markers. These insights emphasize the therapeutic potential of <i>B. lactis</i> MH-022 in modulating diverse aspects of PD, particularly highlighting its role in reducing inflammation, restoring mitochondrial function, enhancing antioxidant capacity, and reshaping the gut microbiota. This multifaceted approach underscores the probiotic's potential in reducing neuroinflammation and protecting dopaminergic neurons, thus offering a promising avenue for PD treatment.


39273435|t|Psychobiotic Properties of <i>Lactiplantibacillus plantarum</i> in Neurodegenerative Diseases.
39273435|w|Mariagiovanna Di Chiano; Fabio Sallustio; Daniela Fiocco; Maria Teresa Rocchetti; Giuseppe Spano; Paola Pontrelli; Antonio Moschetta; Loreto Gesualdo; Raffaella Maria Gadaleta; Anna Gallone
39273435|j|International journal of molecular sciences
39273435|y|2024
39273435|a|Neurodegenerative disorders are the main cause of cognitive and physical disabilities, affect millions of people worldwide, and their incidence is on the rise. Emerging evidence pinpoints a disturbance of the communication of the gut-brain axis, and in particular to gut microbial dysbiosis, as one of the contributors to the pathogenesis of these diseases. In fact, dysbiosis has been associated with neuro-inflammatory processes, hyperactivation of the neuronal immune system, impaired cognitive functions, aging, depression, sleeping disorders, and anxiety. With the rapid advance in metagenomics, metabolomics, and big data analysis, together with a multidisciplinary approach, a new horizon has just emerged in the fields of translational neurodegenerative disease. In fact, recent studies focusing on taxonomic profiling and leaky gut in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders are not only shedding light on an overlooked field but are also creating opportunities for biomarker discovery and development of new therapeutic and adjuvant strategies to treat these disorders. <i>Lactiplantibacillus plantarum</i> (LBP) strains are emerging as promising psychobiotics for the treatment of these diseases. In fact, LBP strains are able to promote eubiosis, increase the enrichment of bacteria producing beneficial metabolites such as short-chain fatty acids, boost the production of neurotransmitters, and support the homeostasis of the gut-brain axis. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge on the role of the gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders with a particular focus on the benefits of LBP strains in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, autism, anxiety, and depression.


38569219|t|Artificial Intelligence-Guided Gut-Microenvironment-Triggered Imaging Sensor Reveals Potential Indicators of Parkinson's Disease.
38569219|w|Yiwei Li; Hong-Xia Ren; Chong-Yung Chi; Yang-Bao Miao
38569219|j|Advanced science (Weinheim, Baden-Wurttemberg, Germany)
38569219|y|2024
38569219|a|The gut-brain axis has recently emerged as a crucial link in the development and progression of Parkinson's disease (PD). Dysregulation of the gut microbiota has been implicated in the pathogenesis of this disease, sparking growing interest in the quest for non-invasive biomarkers derived from the gut for early PD diagnosis. Herein, an artificial intelligence-guided gut-microenvironment-triggered imaging sensor (Eu-MOF@Au-Aptmer) to achieve non-invasive, accurate screening for various stages of PD is presented. The sensor works by analyzing α-Syn in the gut using deep learning algorithms. By monitoring changes in α-Syn, the sensor can predict the onset of PD with high accuracy. This work has the potential to revolutionize the diagnosis and treatment of PD by allowing for early intervention and personalized treatment plans. Moreover, it exemplifies the promising prospects of integrating artificial intelligence (AI) and advanced sensors in the monitoring and prediction of a broad spectrum of diseases and health conditions.


39331469|t|Orally Administered Ginkgolide C Alleviates MPTP-Induced Neurodegeneration by Suppressing Neuroinflammation and Oxidative Stress through Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis in Mice.
39331469|w|Xiyu Gao; Shoupeng Fu; Jingru Wen; Aohan Yan; Shuo Yang; Yiming Zhang; Dianfeng Liu; Dewei He
39331469|j|Journal of agricultural and food chemistry
39331469|y|2024
39331469|a|Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, the etiology of which remains unclear. Studies have shown that neuroinflammation and oxidative stress (OS) play an important role in neuronal damage in patients with PD. Disturbances in the gut microbiota influence neuroinflammation and OS through the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Ginkgolide C (GC), a traditional Chinese medicine extracted from the leaves of <i>Ginkgo biloba</i>, has been reported to exhibit anti-inflammatory effects and the ability to modulate intestinal microbial composition. However, the potential of GC to positively impact PD by modulating the gut microbiota remains unexplored. This study aimed to explore the effects of GC on 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD in mice and elucidate its underlying mechanisms. Our findings elucidated that GC treatment significantly ameliorates behavioral deficits as well as pathological damage via restoring gut microbial homeostasis to downgrade OS and neuroinflammation in MPTP-induced PD mice. Mechanistically, GC treatment exerts antioxidant effects via activating the AKT/Nrf2/HO-1 pathway in MPP<sup>+</sup>-exposed SN4741 neuronal cells and significantly downregulates the expression of inflammatory mediators via regulating NF-κB and MAPK signaling in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated BV2 microglial cells. Overall, our study demonstrates that GC administration alleviates MPTP-induced neurodegeneration via rebuilding gut microbial homeostasis to inhibit OS and neuroinflammation in mice, indicating that GC might serve as a promising candidate medicine for PD.


39344226|t|Research Progress on the Relationship between Parkinson's Disease and REM Sleep Behavior Disorder.
39344226|w|Yu Zhou; Xiaoli Liu; Bin Xu
39344226|j|Journal of integrative neuroscience
39344226|y|2024
39344226|a|An individual's quality of life is greatly affected by Parkinson's disease (PD), a prevalent neurological degenerative condition. Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a prominent non-motor symptom commonly associated with PD. Previous studies have shown a close relationship between PD and RBD. In addition to being a prodromal symptom of PD, RBD has a major negative impact on the prognosis of PD patients. This intrinsic connection indicates that there is a bidirectional relationship between PD and RBD. This paper provides a comprehensive review of the pathological mechanism related to PD and RBD, including the α-synuclein pathological deposition, abnormal iron metabolism, neuroinflammation, glymphatic system dysfunction and dysbiosis of the gut microbiota. Increasing evidence has shown that RBD patients have the same pathogenic mechanisms that underlie PD, but relatively little research has been done on how RBD contributes to PD progression. Therefore, a more thorough investigation is warranted to characterise how RBD affects the course of PD, in order to prepare for future therapeutic trials.


39201684|t|Implications of Butyrate Signaling Pathways on the Motor Symptomatology of Parkinson's Disease and Neuroprotective Effects-Therapeutic Approaches: A Systematic Review.
39201684|w|Jorge Missiego-Beltrán; Eva María Olalla-Álvarez; Ana González-Brugera; Ana Isabel Beltrán-Velasco
39201684|j|International journal of molecular sciences
39201684|y|2024
39201684|a|Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and non-motor symptoms. Emerging evidence suggests that gut microbiota alterations, specifically involving short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) like butyrate, may influence PD pathogenesis and symptomatology. This Systematic Review aims to synthesize current research on the role of butyrate in modulating motor symptoms and its neuroprotective effects in PD, providing insights into potential therapeutic approaches. A systematic literature search was conducted in April 2024 across databases, including ScienceDirect, Scopus, Wiley, and Web of Science, for studies published between 2000 and 2024. Keywords used were "neuroprotective effects AND butyrate AND (Parkinson disease OR motor symptoms)". Four authors independently screened titles, abstracts, and full texts, applying inclusion criteria focused on studies investigating butyrate regulation and PD motor symptoms. A total of 1377 articles were identified, with 40 selected for full-text review and 14 studies meeting the inclusion criteria. Data extraction was performed on the study population, PD models, methodology, intervention details, and outcomes. Quality assessment using the SYRCLE RoB tool highlighted variability in study quality, with some biases noted in allocation concealment and blinding. Findings indicate that butyrate regulation has a significant impact on improving motor symptoms and offers neuroprotective benefits in PD models. The therapeutic modulation of gut microbiota to enhance butyrate levels presents a promising strategy for PD symptom management.


38267447|t|Unravelling the mechanisms of underweight in Parkinson's disease by investigating into the role of gut microbiome.
38267447|w|Ling-Chieh Shih; Ru-Jen Lin; Yan-Lin Chen; Shih-Chen Fu
38267447|j|NPJ Parkinson's disease
38267447|y|2024
38267447|a|Approximately half of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) suffer from unintentional weight loss and are underweight, complicating the clinical course of PD patients. Gut microbiota alteration has been proven to be associated with PD, and recent studies have shown that gut microbiota could lead to muscle wasting, implying a possible role of gut microbiota in underweight PD. In this study, we aimed to (1) investigate the mechanism underlying underweight in PD patients with respect to gut microbiota and (2) estimate the extent to which gut microbiota may mediate PD-related underweight through mediation analysis. The data were adapted from Hill-Burns et al., in which 330 participants (199 PD, 131 controls) were enrolled in the study. Fecal samples were collected from participants for microbiome analysis. 16S rRNA gene sequence data were processed using DADA2. Mediation analysis was performed to quantify the effect of intestinal microbial alteration on the causal effect of PD on underweight and to identify the key bacteria that significantly mediated PD-related underweight. The results showed that the PD group had significantly more underweight patients (body mass index (BMI) < 18.5) after controlling for age and sex. Ten genera and four species were significantly different in relative abundance between the underweight and non-underweight individuals in the PD group. Mediation analysis showed that 42.29% and 37.91% of the effect of PD on underweight was mediated through intestinal microbial alterations at the genus and species levels, respectively. Five genera (Agathobacter, Eisenbergiella, Fusicatenibacter, Roseburia, Ruminococcaceae_UCG_013) showed significant mediation effects. In conclusion, we found that up to 42.29% of underweight PD cases are mediated by gut microbiota, with increased pro-inflammatory bacteria and decreased SCFA-producing bacteria, which indicates that the pro-inflammatory state, disturbance of metabolism, and interference of appetite regulation may be involved in the mechanism of underweight PD.


38891863|t|From Gut to Brain: Uncovering Potential Serum Biomarkers Connecting Inflammatory Bowel Diseases to Neurodegenerative Diseases.
38891863|w|Oliviu-Florentiu Sarb; Adriana-Daniela Sarb; Maria Iacobescu; Irina-Maria Vlad; Mircea-Vasile Milaciu; Lorena Ciurmarnean; Vitalie Vacaras; Alina-Ioana Tantau
38891863|j|International journal of molecular sciences
38891863|y|2024
38891863|a|Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are characterized by chronic gastrointestinal inflammation due to abnormal immune responses to gut microflora. The gut-brain axis is disrupted in IBDs, leading to neurobiological imbalances and affective symptoms. Systemic inflammation in IBDs affects the brain's inflammatory response system, hormonal axis, and blood-brain barrier integrity, influencing the gut microbiota. This review aims to explore the association between dysregulations in the gut-brain axis, serum biomarkers, and the development of cognitive disorders. Studies suggest a potential association between IBDs and the development of neurodegeneration. The mechanisms include systemic inflammation, nutritional deficiency, GBA dysfunction, and the effect of genetics and comorbidities. The objective is to identify potential correlations and propose future research directions to understand the impact of altered microbiomes and intestinal barrier functions on neurodegeneration. Serum levels of vitamins, inflammatory and neuronal damage biomarkers, and neuronal growth factors have been investigated for their potential to predict the development of neurodegenerative diseases, but current results are inconclusive and require more studies.


38741945|t|Utility of zebrafish-based models in understanding molecular mechanisms of neurotoxicity mediated by the gut-brain axis.
38741945|w|Isaac A Adedara; Khadija A Mohammed; Julia Canzian; Babajide O Ajayi; Ebenezer O Farombi; Tatiana Emanuelli; Denis B Rosemberg; Michael Aschner
38741945|j|Advances in neurotoxicology
38741945|y|2024
38741945|a|The gut microbes perform several beneficial functions which impact the periphery and central nervous systems of the host. Gut microbiota dysbiosis is acknowledged as a major contributor to the development of several neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders including bipolar disorder, depression, anxiety, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and autism spectrum disorder. Thus, elucidation of how the gut microbiota-brain axis plays a role in health and disease conditions is a potential novel approach to prevent and treat brain disorders. The zebrafish (<i>Danio rerio</i>) is an invaluable vertebrate model that possesses conserved brain and intestinal features with those of humans, thus making zebrafish a valued model to investigate the interplay between the gut microbiota and host health. This chapter describes current findings on the utility of zebrafish in understanding molecular mechanisms of neurotoxicity mediated via the gut microbiota-brain axis. Specifically, it highlights the utility of zebrafish as a model organism for understanding how anthropogenic chemicals, pharmaceuticals and bacteria exposure affect animals and human health via the gut-brain axis.


39357649|t|Communicating across distances - Biological functions of extracellular vesicles.
39357649|w|Aila Akosua Kattner
39357649|j|Biomedical journal
39357649|y|2024
39357649|a|This issue of the Biomedical Journal features a special section on extracellular vesicles (EVs), covering their role in neurological diseases, viral infections, trogocytosis, allogeneic organ rejection and tolerance, as well as EV biodistribution. Two articles explore the mechanisms of Parkinson's disease, focusing on white matter and exosomes. This journal issue also examines polyomavirus-induced damage in renal transplant grafts, proposes a miRNA signature as a diagnostic biomarker for Kawasaki disease, discusses neural gating and associated brain wave alterations, and further clarifies the relationship between gut microbiota and immune checkpoint inhibitors. Additionally, the importance of therapeutic drug monitoring is reaffirmed.


39002442|t|Pharmacological mechanisms of puerarin in the treatment of Parkinson's disease: An overview.
39002442|w|Nianping Zhang; Peng Guo; Yan Zhao; Xiao Qiu; Shuai Shao; Zhenzhong Liu; Zong Gao
39002442|j|Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie
39002442|y|2024
39002442|a|Puerarin, a monomer of traditional Chinese medicine, is a key component of Pueraria radix. Both clinical and experimental researches demonstrated that puerarin has therapeutic effects on Parkinson's disease (PD). Puerarin's pharmacological mechanisms include: 1) Anti-apoptosis. Puerarin inhibits cell apoptosis through the phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling pathways. Puerarin also exerts a hormone-like effect against cell apoptosis; 2) Anti-oxidative stress injury. Puerarin inhibits the Nrf2 nuclear exclusion through the GSK-3β/Fyn pathway to promote the Nrf2 accumulation in the nucleus, and then promotes the antioxidant synthesis through the Nrf2/ARE signaling pathway to protect against oxidative stress; 3) Neuroprotective effects by intervening in the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and autophagy-lysosomal pathway (ALP). Puerarin significantly enhances the activity of chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), which downregulates the expression of α-synuclein, reduces its accumulation, and thus improves the function of damaged neurons. Additionally, puerarin increases proteasome activity and decreases ubiquitin-binding proteins, thereby preventing toxic accumulation of intracellular proteins; 4) Alleviating inflammatory response. Puerarin inhibits the conversion of microglia to the M1 phenotype while inducing the transition of microglia to the M2 phenotype. Furthermore, puerarin promotes the secretion of anti-inflammatory factor and inhibits the expression of pro-inflammatory factors; 5) Increasing the levels of dopamine and its metabolites. Puerarin could increase the levels of dopamine, homovanillic acid (HVA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the striatum; 6) Promoting neurotrophic factor expression and neuronal repair. Puerarin increases the expression of glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF), thereby exerting a neuroprotective effect. Moreover, the regulation of the gut microbiota by puerarin may be a potential mechanism for the treatment of PD. The current review discusses the molecular mechanisms of puerarin, which may provide insight into the active components of traditional Chinese medicine in the treatment of PD.


37855342|t|The Role of the Vagus Nerve in the Microbiome and Digestive System in Relation to Epilepsy.
37855342|w|Carmen Rubio; Ernesto Ochoa; Fernando Gatica; Alonso Portilla; David Vázquez; Moisés Rubio-Osornio
37855342|j|Current medicinal chemistry
37855342|y|2024
37855342|a|The Enteric Nervous System (ENS) is described as a division of the Peripheral Nervous System (PNS), located within the gut wall and it is formed by two main plexuses: the myenteric plexus (Auerbach's) and the submucosal plexus (Meissner's). The contribution of the ENS to the pathophysiology of various neurological diseases such as Parkinson's or Alzheimer's disease has been described in the literature, while some other studies have found a connection between epilepsy and the gastrointestinal tract. The above could be explained by cholinergic neurons and neurotransmission systems in the myenteric and submucosal plexuses, regulating the vagal excitability effect. It is also understandable, as the discharges arising in the amygdala are transmitted to the intestine through projections the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, giving rise to efferent fibers that stimulate the gastrointestinal tract and consequently the symptoms at this level. Therefore, this review's main objective is to argue in favor of the existing relationship of the ENS with the Central Nervous System (CNS) as a facilitator of epileptogenic or ictogenic mechanisms. The gut microbiota also participates in this interaction; however, it depends on many individual factors of each human being. The link between the ENS and the CNS is a poorly studied epileptogenic site with a big impact on one of the most prevalent neurological conditions such as epilepsy.


38474254|t|<i>Lactiplantibacillus (Lactobacillus) plantarum</i> as a Complementary Treatment to Improve Symptomatology in Neurodegenerative Disease: A Systematic Review of Open Access Literature.
38474254|w|Ana Isabel Beltrán-Velasco; Manuel Reiriz; Sara Uceda; Víctor Echeverry-Alzate
38474254|j|International journal of molecular sciences
38474254|y|2024
38474254|a|This systematic review addresses the use of <i>Lactiplantibacillus</i> (<i>Lactobacillus) plantarum</i> in the symptomatological intervention of neurodegenerative disease. The existence of gut microbiota dysbiosis has been associated with systemic inflammatory processes present in neurodegenerative disease, creating the opportunity for new treatment strategies. This involves modifying the strains that constitute the gut microbiota to enhance synaptic function through the gut-brain axis. Recent studies have evaluated the beneficial effects of the use of <i>Lactiplantibacillus plantarum</i> on motor and cognitive symptomatology, alone or in combination. This systematic review includes 20 research articles (<i>n</i> = 3 in human and <i>n</i> = 17 in animal models). The main result of this research was that the use of <i>Lactiplantibacillus plantarum</i> alone or in combination produced improvements in symptomatology related to neurodegenerative disease. However, one of the studies included reported negative effects after the administration of <i>Lactiplantibacillus plantarum</i>. This systematic review provides current and relevant information about the use of this probiotic in pathologies that present neurodegenerative processes such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Multiple Sclerosis.


39060267|t|Multiomics of parkinsonism cynomolgus monkeys highlights significance of metabolites in interaction between host and microbiota.
39060267|w|Jiang-Mei Gao; Shou-Yue Xia; Geoff Hide; Bi-Hai Li; Yi-Yan Liu; Zhi-Yuan Wei; Xiao-Ji Zhuang; Qing Yan; Yun Wang; Wei Yang; Jian-Huan Chen; Jun-Hua Rao
39060267|j|NPJ biofilms and microbiomes
39060267|y|2024
39060267|a|The gut microbiota has been demonstrated to play a significant role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, conflicting findings regarding specific microbial species have been reported, possibly due to confounding factors within human populations. Herein, our current study investigated the interaction between the gut microbiota and host in a non-human primate (NHP) PD model induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) using a multi-omic approach and a self-controlled design. Our transcriptomic sequencing of peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL) identified key genes involved in pro-inflammatory cytokine dysregulation, mitochondrial function regulation, neuroprotection activation, and neurogenesis associated with PD, such as IL1B, ATP1A3, and SLC5A3. The metabolomic profiles in serum and feces consistently exhibited significant alterations, particularly those closely associated with inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunctions and neurodegeneration in PD, such as TUDCA, ethylmalonic acid, and L-homophenylalanine. Furthermore, fecal metagenome analysis revealed gut dysbiosis associated with PD, characterized by a significant decrease in alpha diversity and altered commensals, particularly species such as Streptococcus, Butyrivibrio, and Clostridium. Additionally, significant correlations were observed between PD-associated microbes and metabolites, such as sphingomyelin and phospholipids. Importantly, PDPC significantly reduced in both PD monkey feces and serum, exhibiting strong correlation with PD-associated genes and microbes, such as SLC5A3 and Butyrivibrio species. Moreover, such multi-omic differential biomarkers were linked to the clinical rating scales of PD monkeys. Our findings provided novel insights into understanding the potential role of key metabolites in the host-microbiota interaction involved in PD pathogenesis.


39064687|t|Postbiotics as Molecules Targeting Cellular Events of Aging Brain-The Role in Pathogenesis, Prophylaxis and Treatment of Neurodegenerative Diseases.
39064687|w|Pola Głowacka; Katarzyna Oszajca; Agnieszka Pudlarz; Janusz Szemraj; Monika Witusik-Perkowska
39064687|j|Nutrients
39064687|y|2024
39064687|a|Aging is the most prominent risk factor for neurodegeneration occurrence. The most common neurodegenerative diseases (NDs), Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's (PD) diseases, are characterized by the incidence of proteinopathy, abnormal activation of glial cells, oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, impaired autophagy and cellular senescence excessive for the patient's age. Moreover, mitochondrial disfunction, epigenetic alterations and neurogenesis inhibition, together with increased blood-brain barrier permeability and gut dysbiosis, have been linked to ND pathogenesis. Since NDs still lack curative treatment, recent research has sought therapeutic options in restoring gut microbiota and supplementing probiotic bacteria-derived metabolites with beneficial action to the host-so called postbiotics. The current review focuses on literature explaining cellular mechanisms involved in ND pathogenesis and research addressing the impact that postbiotics as a whole mixture and particular metabolites, such as short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), lactate, polyamines, polyphenols, tryptophan metabolites, exopolysaccharides and bacterial extracellular vesicles, have on the ageing-associated processes underlying ND occurrence. The review also discusses the issue of implementing postbiotics into ND prophylaxis and therapy, depicting them as compounds addressing senescence-triggered dysfunctions that are worth translating from bench to pharmaceutical market in response to "silver consumers" demands.


39145619|t|Oral aged garlic (<i>Allium sativum</i>) alleviates ulcerative colitis in mice by improving gut homeostasis.
39145619|w|Deping Han; Xuke Guan; Fengxia Zhu; Qing Yang; Dingding Su
39145619|j|Food & function
39145619|y|2024
39145619|a|Aged garlic, obtained by heating raw garlic (<i>Allium sativum</i>) under high temperature and controlled humidity for a period, possesses a wide range of bioactivities, but its role in ulcerative colitis and its mechanism are not fully elucidated. We investigated the bioactive constituents in aged garlic (AG) and explored the effect of oral AG delivery on DSS-induced murine colitis. The results revealed that the aging process up-regulated anti-oxidative, anti-inflammatory and anti-microbial compounds such as dihydrocaffeic acid, 5-acetylsalicylic acid, verticine, <i>S</i>-allyl-L-cysteine and D-fucose. Oral AG obviously alleviated colitis, reducing colon damage and enhancing anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory effects. <i>Escherichia coli</i> and <i>Streptococcus equinus</i> dramatically were enriched in the colon of mice with colitis that were strongly associated with Parkinson's disease, bacterial invasion of epithelial cells, aerobactin biosynthesis, and heme biosynthesis, but a distinct AG-mediated alteration in the colon due to increasing abundance of <i>Akkermansia muciniphila</i>, <i>Lactobacillus</i> sp. <i>L-YJ</i>, <i>Bifidobacterium breve</i>, <i>Blautia wexlerae</i>, <i>Desulfomicrobium</i> sp. <i>P100A</i>, and <i>Lentilactobacillus hilgardii</i> was observed. Next, we demonstrated that colonic microbiome reconstruction by oral AG significantly increased the production of short-chain fatty acids such as acetic acid, propionic acid, isobutyric acid, and isovaleric acid. This study provides the first data indicating that oral AG ameliorates colonic inflammation in a gut microbiota-dependent manner. Our findings provide novel insights into the AG-mediated remission of colitis and AG as a functional food for modulating the gut microbiota to prevent and treat colitis.


38500273|t|Gastrointestinal Issues in Depression, Anxiety, and Neurodegenerative Diseases: A Systematic Review on Pathways and Clinical Targets Implications.
38500273|w|Ian Richard Lucena Andriolo; Bruna Longo; Dayse Machado de Melo; Márcia Maria de Souza; Rui Daniel Prediger; Luisa Mota da Silva
38500273|j|CNS & neurological disorders drug targets
38500273|y|2024
38500273|a|Multiple illnesses commonly involve both the Central Nervous System (CNS) and the Gastrointestinal Tract (GI) simultaneously. Consistent evidence suggests that neurological disorders impair GI tract function and worsen the symptomatology and pathophysiology of digestive disorders. On the other hand, it has been proposed that early functional changes in the GI tract contribute to the genesis of several CNS illnesses. Additionally, the role played by the gut in these diseases can be seen as a paradigm for how the gut and the brain interact. We mentioned significant GI symptoms and discussed how the GI tract affects central nervous system illnesses, including depression, anxiety, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease in this study. We also explored potential pathophysiological underpinnings and novel targets for the creation of future therapies targeted at gut-brain connections. In this situation, modulating the gut microbiota through the administration of fecal microbiota transplants or probiotics may represent a new therapeutic option for this population, not only to treat GI problems but also behavioral problems, given the role that dysbiosis and leaky gut play in many neurological disorders. Accurate diagnosis and treatment of co-existing illnesses also require coordination between psychiatrists, neurologists, gastroenterologists, and other specialties, as well as a thorough history and thorough physical examination.


39021576|t|Potential value and research frontiers of virus in neuroinflammation: a bibliometric and visualized analysis.
39021576|w|Danyang Li; Minghua Wu
39021576|j|Frontiers in immunology
39021576|y|2024
39021576|a|Neuroinflammation represents the immune response of the central nervous system to nerve injury, infection, toxin stimulation, or autoimmunity and is implicated in a wide range of neurological disorders. Viruses play a pivotal role as extrinsic biological drivers in neuroinflammation; however, numerous aspects remain unexplored. In this study, we employed bibliometric analysis to assess the current status of viral research in neuroinflammation and anticipate future research directions and emerging trends. Conduct a comprehensive search for scholarly publications within the Web of Science Core Collection database, with search terms on neuroinflammation and virus. Apply Microsoft Excel Office, Hiplot, R (version 4.3.1), VOSviewer (version 1.6.20) and CiteSpace (6.2.R6, advanced) software for the bibliometric analysis and visualization. A total of 4230 articles and reviews on virus and neuroinflammation were identified, demonstrating a consistent upward trend over time. The United States was the country that contributed the most publications. Approximately 22274 authors from 4474 institutions contributed to the research. Johns Hopkins University leads with the highest number of publications and citations. The top three authors with the most published articles on this field are Power, C., Lane, T. E., and Buch, S. The Journal of Neuroinflammation is the most authoritative choice for researchers. The main research focuses in this field include multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, blood-brain barrier, COVID-19, Alzheimer's disease, gene therapy. In recent years, stress have emerged as hot keywords, particularly depression, human immunodeficiency virus-associated neurocognitive disorders, blood-brain barrier, gut microbiota related directions, indicating a potential shift in research focus. Research on the virus and neuroinflammation has attracted increasing attention in the past decade. European and American countries have been pivotal in conducting research on virus and neuroinflammation, while China has produced a significant number of publications, its impact is still limited. Stress is likely to emerge as the next area of focus in this field. The association and regulation between viral infection and psychiatric disorders are not fully understood, and further research is needed to explore the role of neuroinflammation caused by different types of viral infection and psychiatric disorders.


39309265|t|Effect of <i>BF</i>839 + earthworm protein supplement on motor and some non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease: a randomized clinical trial.
39309265|w|Ting Zeng; Chuhui Lin; Yuhong Deng; Weiwen Zhu
39309265|j|Frontiers in neurology
39309265|y|2024
39309265|a|Some studies have found that probiotics have the potential to treat PD, and earthworm protein is a traditional Chinese medicine used for the treatment of PD. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of <i>Bacteroides fragilis</i> 839 (<i>BF</i>839) + earthworm protein supplement as an adjunctive therapy for PD and to observe changes in the gut microbiota. Forty-six patients with PD were recruited for a 12-week 1:1 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to evaluate changes in motor and some non-motor symptom scores and detect metagenomic changes in the gut microbiota. From baseline to 12 weeks, compared with placebo, the trial group showed significant reductions in the United Parkinson's Disease Rate Scale (UPDRS) total score (-7.74 ± 5.92 vs. -1.83 ± 4.14, <i>p</i> < 0.001), UPDRS part I (-0.72 ± 0.81 vs. -0.20 ± 0.72, <i>p</i> = 0.026), UPDRS part II (-2.50 ± 2.24 vs. -0.22 ± 1.98, <i>p</i> = 0.001), UPDRS part III (-3.43 ± 3.42 vs. -1.33 ± 2.65, <i>p</i> = 0.024), and UPDRS part IV (-1.13 ± 1.19 vs. -0.15 ± 0.57, <i>p</i> = 0.001). Significant reductions in the Hamilton Depression Scale-24 score (-3.91 ± 3.99 vs. +1.15 ± 3.42, <i>p</i> < 0.001), Self-Rating Anxiety Scale scores (-7.04 ± 5.71 vs. -1.23 ± 2.34, <i>p</i> < 0.001), and Constipation scoring system scores (-8.59 ± 4.75 vs. 0.27 ± 1.24, <i>p</i> < 0.001), were also noted. In the trial group, one patient experienced mild eczema and one suffered low blood pressure, which could not be conclusively attributed to supplementation. Compared to the placebo group, the trial group showed a marked increase in <i>Enterococcus faecium</i> and a decrease in <i>Klebsiella.</i> This study is the first to report that probiotics plus earthworm protein can remarkably improve the motor and some non-motor symptoms of PD without serious adverse effects. However, further clinical trials and exploration of the underlying mechanisms are required. Clinical trial registry http://www.chictr.org.cn/, Identification No: ChiCTR2000035122.


38366179|t|Commensal protist Tritrichomonas musculus exhibits a dynamic life cycle that induces extensive remodeling of the gut microbiota.
38366179|w|Ana Popovic; Eric Y Cao; Joanna Han; Nirvana Nursimulu; Eliza V C Alves-Ferreira; Kyle Burrows; Andrea Kennard; Noor Alsmadi; Michael E Grigg; Arthur Mortha; John Parkinson
38366179|j|The ISME journal
38366179|y|2024
38366179|a|Commensal protists and gut bacterial communities exhibit complex relationships, mediated at least in part through host immunity. To improve our understanding of this tripartite interplay, we investigated community and functional dynamics between the murine protist Tritrichomonas musculus and intestinal bacteria in healthy and B-cell-deficient mice. We identified dramatic, protist-driven remodeling of resident microbiome growth and activities, in parallel with Tritrichomonas musculus functional changes, which were accelerated in the absence of B cells. Metatranscriptomic data revealed nutrient-based competition between bacteria and the protist. Single-cell transcriptomics identified distinct Tritrichomonas musculus life stages, providing new evidence for trichomonad sexual replication and the formation of pseudocysts. Unique cell states were validated in situ through microscopy and flow cytometry. Our results reveal complex microbial dynamics during the establishment of a commensal protist in the gut, and provide valuable data sets to drive future mechanistic studies.


39143178|t|Metagenome-assembled microbial genomes from Parkinson's disease fecal samples.
39143178|w|Ilhan Cem Duru; Alexandre Lecomte; Tânia Keiko Shishido; Pia Laine; Joni Suppula; Lars Paulin; Filip Scheperjans; Pedro A B Pereira; Petri Auvinen
39143178|j|Scientific reports
39143178|y|2024
39143178|a|The human gut microbiome composition has been linked to Parkinson's disease (PD). However, knowledge of the gut microbiota on the genome level is still limited. Here we performed deep metagenomic sequencing and binning to build metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) from 136 human fecal microbiomes (68 PD samples and 68 control samples). We constructed 952 non-redundant high-quality MAGs and compared them between PD and control groups. Among these MAGs, there were 22 different genomes of Collinsella and Prevotella, indicating high variability of those genera in the human gut environment. Microdiversity analysis indicated that Ruminococcus bromii was statistically significantly (p < 0.002) more diverse on the strain level in the control samples compared to the PD samples. In addition, by clustering all genes and performing presence-absence analysis between groups, we identified several control-specific (p < 0.05) related genes, such as speF and Fe-S oxidoreductase. We also report detailed annotation of MAGs, including Clusters of Orthologous Genes (COG), Cas operon type, antiviral gene, prophage, and secondary metabolites biosynthetic gene clusters, which can be useful for providing a reference for future studies.


38375842|t|Molecular Targets of Valeric Acid: A Bioactive Natural Product for Endocrine, Metabolic, and Immunological Disorders.
38375842|w|Bindu Kumari; Usha Kumari; Dhananjay Kumar Singh; Gulam Mohammed Husain; Dinesh Kumar Patel; Anshul Shakya; Ravi Bhushan Singh; Gyan Prakash Modi; Gireesh Kumar Singh
38375842|j|Endocrine, metabolic & immune disorders drug targets
38375842|y|2024
38375842|a|Postbiotics produced by gut microbiota have exhibited diverse pharmacological activities. Valeric acid, a postbiotic material produced by gut microbiota and some plant species like valerian, has been explored to have diverse pharmacological activities. This narrative review aims to summarise the beneficial role of valeric acid for different health conditions along with its underlying mechanism. In order to get ample scientific evidence, various databases like Science Direct, PubMed, Scopus, Google Scholar and Google were exhaustively explored to collect relevant information. Collected data were arranged and analyzed to reach a meaningful conclusion regarding the bioactivity profiling of valeric acid, its mechanism, and future prospects. Valeric acid belongs to short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) compounds like acetate, propionate, butyrate, pentanoic (valeric) acid, and hexanoic (caproic) acid. Valeric acid has been identified as one of the potent histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors. In different preclinical in -vitro and in-vivo studies, valeric acid has been found to have anti-cancer, anti-diabetic, antihypertensive, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory activity and affects molecular pathways of different diseases like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and epilepsy. These findings highlight the role of valeric acid as a potential novel therapeutic agent for endocrine, metabolic and immunity-related health conditions, and it must be tested under clinical conditions to develop as a promising drug.


39406307|t|Lactiplantibacillus plantarum SG5 inhibits neuroinflammation in MPTP-induced PD mice through GLP-1/PGC-1α pathway.
39406307|w|Yueyan Qi; Yuxuan Dong; Jinhu Chen; Siyou Xie; Xin Ma; Xueping Yu; Yang Yu; Yanqin Wang
39406307|j|Experimental neurology
39406307|y|2024
39406307|a|Mounting evidence suggests that alterations in gut microbial composition play an active role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Probiotics are believed to modulate gut microbiota, potentially influencing PD development through the microbiota-gut-brain axis. However, the potential beneficial effects of Lactiplantibacillus plantarum SG5 (formerly known as Lactobacillus plantarum, abbreviated as L. plantarum) on PD and its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we employed immunofluorescence, Western blotting, ELISA, and 16S rRNA gene sequencing to investigate the neuroprotective effects of L. plantarum SG5 against neuroinflammation in an MPTP-induced PD model and to explore the underlying mechanisms. Our results demonstrated that L. plantarum SG5 ameliorated MPTP-induced motor deficits, dopaminergic neuron loss, and elevated α-synuclein protein levels. Furthermore, SG5 inhibited MPTP-triggered overactivation of microglia and astrocytes in the substantia nigra (SN), attenuated disruption of both blood-brain and intestinal barriers, and suppressed the release of inflammatory factors in the colon and SN. Notably, SG5 modulated the composition and structure of the gut microbiota in mice. The MPTP-induced decrease in colonic GLP-1 secretion was reversed by SG5 treatment, accompanied by increased expression of GLP-1R and PGC-1α in the SN. Importantly, the GLP-1R antagonist Exendin 9-39 and PGC-1α inhibitor SR18292 attenuated the protective effects of SG5 in PD mice. In conclusion, we demonstrate a neuroprotective role of L. plantarum SG5 in the MPTP-induced PD mouse model, which likely involves modulation of the gut microbiota and, significantly, the GLP-1/PGC-1α signaling pathway.


38539626|t|<i>Akkermansia muciniphila</i> Is Beneficial to a Mouse Model of Parkinson's Disease, via Alleviated Neuroinflammation and Promoted Neurogenesis, with Involvement of SCFAs.
38539626|w|Chen-Meng Qiao; Wen-Yan Huang; Yu Zhou; Wei Quan; Gu-Yu Niu; Ting Li; Mei-Xuan Zhang; Jian Wu; Li-Ping Zhao; Wei-Jiang Zhao; Chun Cui; Yan-Qin Shen
38539626|j|Brain sciences
38539626|y|2024
38539626|a|Increasing evidence suggests that the gut microbiota may represent potential strategies for Parkinson's disease (PD) treatment. Our previous research revealed a decreased abundance of <i>Akkermansia muciniphila</i> (Akk) in PD mice; however, whether Akk is beneficial to PD is unknown. To answer this question, the mice received MPTP intraperitoneally to construct a subacute model of PD and were then supplemented with Akk orally for 21 consecutive days. Motor function, dopaminergic neurons, neuroinflammation, and neurogenesis were examined. In addition, intestinal inflammation, and serum and fecal short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) analyses, were assessed. We found that Akk treatment effectively inhibited the reduction of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and partially improved the motor function in PD mice. Additionally, Akk markedly alleviated neuroinflammation in the striatum and hippocampus and promoted hippocampal neurogenesis. It also decreased the level of colon inflammation. Furthermore, these aforementioned changes are mainly accompanied by alterations in serum and fecal isovaleric acid levels, and lower intestinal permeability. Our research strongly suggests that Akk is a potential neuroprotective agent for PD therapy.


39367119|t|Synbiotic supplementation may globally improve non-motor symptoms in patients with stable Parkinson's disease: results from an open label single-arm study.
39367119|w|V Andreozzi; S Cuoco; M Balestrieri; F Fierro; N Ferrara; R Erro; M Di Filippo; G Barbella; M C Memoli; A Silvestri; M Squillante; S Guglielmetti; P Barone; P Iovino; M T Pellecchia
39367119|j|Scientific reports
39367119|y|2024
39367119|a|Gut microbiota changes and brain-gut-axis (BGA) dysregulation are common in people with Parkinson's Disease (PD). Probiotics and prebiotics are emerging as a potential therapeutic approach for PD patients. The aim of this paper was to assess the neurological and gastroenterological effects in PD patients with constipation after the administration of a synbiotic product, with a focus on behavioral and cognitive symptoms. We enrolled patients with stable PD who met diagnostic criteria for functional constipation and/or irritable bowel syndrome with constipation according to Rome IV Criteria. Patients received a synbiotic treatment (Enterolactis Duo, containing the probiotic strain Lacticaseibacillus paracasei DG and the prebiotic fiber inulin) for 12 weeks. A neurological and a gastroenterological evaluation were collected before and after the treatment. In addition, 16S rRNA gene profiling and short chain fatty acid quantification were performed to characterize the microbial ecosystem of fecal samples collected before (n = 22) and after (n = 9) the synbiotic administration. 30 patients were consecutively enrolled. After treatment, patients performed better in MDS-UPDRS part 1 (p = 0.000), SCOPA-AUT (p = 0.001), TAS-20 (p = 0.014), HAM-D (p = 0.026), DIFt (p = 0.003), PAS-A (p = 0.048). Gastroenterological evaluations showed improvements in PAC-SYM score (p < 0.001), number of complete bowel movement (p < 0.001) and BSFS (p < 0.001). After the synbiotic administration, we observed a significant increase in the abundance of the order Oscillospirales, as well as the Oscillospiraceae family and the species Faecalibacterium prausnitzii within this order in fecal samples. Synbiotic treatment demonstrates potential efficacy in ameliorating non-motor features in PD patients.


38796044|t|Rosmarinic acid mitigates intestinal inflammation and oxidative stress in bullfrogs (Lithobates catesbeiana) fed high soybean meal diets.
38796044|w|Bo Zhu; Shude Xu; Junzhi Zhang; Shuhui Xiang; Yi Hu
38796044|j|Fish & shellfish immunology
38796044|y|2024
38796044|a|High proportions of soybean meal in aquafeed have been confirmed to induce various intestinal pathologies. This study aims to investigate the regulatory effects of rosmarinic acid (RA), an antioxidant with anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties, when added to high soybean meal feeds in different doses, (0, 0.5, 1, and 4 g/kg). During the 56-day feeding trial, results indicated that, compared to the control group without RA (0 g/kg), the 1 g/kg and 4 g/kg RA groups increased bullfrog survival rates and total weight gain while reducing feed coefficient. Additionally, these doses markedly suppressed the expression of key intestinal inflammatory markers (tlr5, myd88, tnfα, il1β, cxcl8, cxcl12) and the activity and content of intestinal antioxidants (CAT, MDA, GSH, GPX). Concurrently, RA significantly downregulated the transcription levels of antioxidant-related genes (cat, gpx5, cyba, cybb, mgst, gclc, gsta, gstp), suggesting RA's potential to alleviate intestinal inflammation and oxidative stress induced by high soybean meal and to help downregulate and restore normal expression of antioxidant enzyme genes. However, the 0.5 g/kg RA group did not show a significant improvement in survival rates; instead, it upregulated the transcription of some antioxidant genes (cat, gpx5, cyba, cybb), revealing the complexity and dose-dependency of RA's antioxidant action. Furthermore, RA supplementation significantly reshaped the intestinal microbial community structure and relative abundance in bullfrogs, particularly affecting the genera Hafnia, Phascolarctobacterium, and Lactococcus. Notably, high doses of RA (1 g/kg, 4 g/kg) were able to downregulate pathways associated with the enrichment of gut microbiota in diseases such as Parkinson's, Staphylococcus aureus infection, and Systemic lupus erythematosus, suggesting its potential in anti-inflammatory action and health maintenance to prevent potential diseases.


39302939|t|Water extract of ginseng alleviates parkinsonism in MPTP-induced Parkinson's disease mice.
39302939|w|Ning Xu; Shuyang Xing; Jie Li; Bo Pang; Meichen Liu; Meiling Fan; Yu Zhao
39302939|j|PloS one
39302939|y|2024
39302939|a|In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effect of a water extract of ginseng (WEG) obtained via low-temperature extraction of the brain of mice with Parkinson's disease (PD) and the ameliorative effect on the damaged intestinal system for the treatment of dyskinesia in PD mice. MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) was injected intraperitoneally into male C57BL/6 mice to establish a PD model, and WEG was given via oral gavage. The results indicated that WEG could protect the damaged neuronal cells of the mice brain, inhibit the aggregation of α-synuclein (α-Syn) in the brain, and increase the positive expression rate of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). WEG significantly improved intestinal damage and regulated intestinal disorders (P<0.05). WEG intervention increased the levels of beneficial bacteria, such as Lactobacillus, and normalized the abundance and diversity of colonies in the intestine of mice. Our results suggested that WEG protected neurons in the brain of PD mice via inhibiting the aggregation of α-Syn in the brain and increasing the positive expression level of TH in the brain. WEG regulated the gut microbiota of mice, improved the behavioral disorders of PD mice, and offered some therapeutic effects on PD mice.


38997651|t|Identification of volatile metabolites produced from levodopa metabolism by different bacteria strains of the gut microbiome.
38997651|w|Taylor Pennington; Jarrett Eshima; Barbara S Smith
38997651|j|BMC microbiology
38997651|y|2024
38997651|a|Interspecies pathways in the gut microbiome have been shown to metabolize levodopa, the primary treatment for Parkinson's disease, and reduce its bioavailability. While the enzymatic reactions have been identified, the ability to establish the resulting macromolecules as biomarkers of microbial metabolism remains technically challenging. In this study, we leveraged an untargeted mass spectrometry-based approach to investigate volatile organic compounds (VOCs) produced during levodopa metabolism by Enterococcus faecalis, Clostridium sporogenes, and Eggerthella lenta. We cultured these organisms with and without their respective bioactive metabolites and detected levodopa-induced shifts in VOC profiles. We then utilized bioinformatics to identify significant differences in 2,6-dimethylpyrazine, 4,6-dimethylpyrimidine, and 4,5-dimethylpyrimidine associated with its biotransformation. Supplementing cultures with inhibitors of levodopa-metabolizing enzymes revealed specific modulation of levodopa-associated diazines, verifying their relationship to its metabolism. Furthermore, functional group analysis depicts strain-specific VOC profiles that reflect interspecies differences in metabolic activity that can be leveraged to assess microbiome functionality in individual patients. Collectively, this work identifies previously uncharacterized metabolites of microbe-mediated levodopa metabolism to determine potential indicators of this activity and further elucidate the metabolic capabilities of different gut bacteria.


39310761|t|Identification of proteotoxic and proteoprotective bacteria that non-specifically affect proteins associated with neurodegenerative diseases.
39310761|w|Alyssa C Walker; Rohan Bhargava; Michael J Bucher; Yoan M Argote; Amanda S Brust; Daniel M Czyż
39310761|j|iScience
39310761|y|2024
39310761|a|There are no cures for neurodegenerative protein conformational diseases (PCDs), such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Huntington's disease (HD). Emerging evidence suggests the gut microbiota plays a role in their pathogenesis, though the influences of specific bacteria on disease-associated proteins remain elusive. Here, we reveal the effects of 229 human bacterial isolates on the aggregation and toxicity of Aβ<sub>1-42</sub>, α-synuclein, and polyglutamine tracts in <i>Caenorhabditis elegans</i> expressing these culprit proteins. Our findings demonstrate that bacterial effects on host protein aggregation are consistent across different culprit proteins, suggesting that microbes affect protein stability by modulating host proteostasis rather than selectively targeting disease-associated proteins. Furthermore, we found that feeding <i>C. elegans</i> proteoprotective <i>Prevotella corporis</i> activates the heat shock response, revealing an unexpected discovery of a microbial influence on host proteostasis. Insight into how individual bacteria affect PCD proteins could open new strategies for prevention and treatment by altering the abundance of microbes.


